---
name: 3.7.2.1
title: 3.7.2.1 - Route Reflectors
short-title: Route Reflectors
category: 3.7.2 iBGP Scaling
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.2.1.html
folder: bgp
---
Route Reflectors are a way to reduce the number of iBGP peer connections in a large AS. Route reflectors have two advantages over confederations:
- All routers in a confederation must understand and support confederations. But only the route reflectors must understand route reflection; the client routers see their connection to the RR as just another IBGP connection.
- Route reflection is simpler to implement, both for the configuration statements needed and for topology issues.

Confederations, as we will see later, add additional controls within the AS to manage it in more of an eBGP fashion, but at the cost of complexity. However, you can use both within the same AS if needed.

Route reflectors work by relaxing the rule that iBGP peers cannot advertise routes learned from other iBGP peers. The route reflector is indeed allowed to advertise routes it learns from one client to its other clients. To avoid routing loops the route reflector cannot change the attributes of the routes it receives from its clients. In addition, to prevent routing loops, route reflectors use two BGP path attributes: ORIGINATOR_ID and CLUSTER_LIST.

ORIGINATOR_ID is an optional, nontransitive attribute (Type code 9) that is created by the route reflector. The ORIGINATOR_ID is the router ID of the originator of a route within the local autonomous system. A route reflector does not advertise a route back to the originator of the route; nonetheless, if the originator receives an update with its own RID, the update is ignored. As a result, ORIGINATOR_ID prevents loops within a single RR cluster.

CLUSTER_LIST is an optional, nontransitive attribute (Type code 10) that tracks cluster IDs the same way that the AS_PATH attribute tracks AS numbers. When a RR reflects a route from a client to a nonclient, it appends its cluster ID to the CLUSTER_LIST. If the CLUSTER_LIST is empty, the RR creates one. When an RR receives an update, it checks the CLUSTER\_LIST. If it sees its own cluster ID in the list, it knows that a routing loop has occurred and ignores the update. It should be obvious to you that this is the same loop prevention function that AS\_PATH performs. CLUSTER\_LIST prevents loops between multiple RR clusters.

If an RR receives multiple routes to the same destination, it uses the normal BGP decision process to select the best path. RFC 4456 defines three rules that the RR uses to determine who the route is advertised to, depending upon how the route was learned:
- If the route were learned from a non-client IBGP peer, it is reflected to clients only (non-clients need to be fully meshed).
- If the route were learned from a client, it is reflected to all nonclients and clients, except for the originating client.
- If the route were learned from an EBGP peer, it is reflected to all clients and nonclients.

I understand this the best when I read the above and reference the diagram below:

{% include image.html file="RR-Full.png" %}

The route reflector functionality has to be supported only on the route reflector. From the clients’ perspectives, they are merely peering with an internal neighbor. This is an attractive feature of route reflectors because routers with relatively basic BGP implementations can still be clients in a route reflection cluster. The client doesn’t know that it’s a client.

The concept of route reflectors is similar to that of route servers. The primary purpose of both devices is to reduce the number of required peering sessions by providing a single peering point for multiple neighbors. The neighbors then depend upon the one device to learn their routes. The difference between route reflectors and route servers is that route reflectors are also routers, whereas route servers are not.

Route reflectors also help scale the BGP tables on clients because only the best route from each RR is reflected to the client.

Because clients do not know they are clients, a route reflector can be a client of another route reflector. As a result, you can build “nested” route reflection clusters.

If a route reflector fails, clients will be isolated, so it is important to build in redundancy. iBGP speakers can be clients of multiple route reflectors. You just need to be sure that there is physical redundancy in addition to logical redundancy in your design. The multiple route replectors would need to be peered with each other.

Another item to remember is that the route reflector will not change the attributes of routes it learns or reflects. This includes the next-hop address. Also, route reflectors only propogate the best route to a given destination, even if multiple routes exist. You must be careful not to introduce suboptimal routing due to this characteristic.