---
name: 3.7.10.4
title: 3.7.10.4 - Dampening
short-title: Dampening
category: 3.7.10 BGP Convergence Optimization
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.10.4.html
folder: bgp
---
Network instabilities (such as unreliable links) may cause BGP prefix flapping. A flap is a network prefix going up and down or vice-versa; in other words, a change in reachability state. Prefix flapping is dangerous to network stability, because it causes network withdraws and best-path re-computations. Moreover, a flapping prefix may cause recursive route withdraws, resulting in massive BGP table changes. Two methods for reducing the impact of network instabilities are summarization (information hiding) and prefix dampening. Summarization aggregates reachability information and hides flaps of the specific prefixes constituting a summary. Dampening is the process of suppressing a flapping prefix advertisement until the moment it becomes “stable.” This introduces some “inertial” mechanism to new prefix advertisement, delaying the change announcements for oscillating prefixes.

The idea of dampening is to suppress a prefix based on the number of flaps accounted and un-suppress the prefix only after an exponentially decaying timer expires. Every time a prefix flaps, it is assigned an additive penalty value, 1000 by default. If this is just an attribute change, such as Local-Preference or AS_PATH, the penalty is halved, 500 by default. If the prefix becomes unavailable after flapping at least once, the BGP process still keeps it in the table, marked in “history” state to account for further flaps and penalty accumulation. If the accumulated penalty value exceeds the Suppress Limit, which defaults to 2000, the BGP process will mark the route as damped. Even though the prefix could be currently “active” (flapped from down to up), BGP will not advertise it to any peers. Every five seconds the BGP process exponentially decreases the penalty value assigned to the prefix. The exponential decay process has one parameter, Half-Life time period, which specifies the amount of time needed to decrease the current penalty to the value twice smaller. That is, the decay process follows the equation P(t) = P(0)/2^(t/Half_Life), with the default Half_Life time of 15 minutes. As soon as the penalty falls below the Reuse Limit, the router will unsuppress the prefix and start advertising it again. The decision to unsuppress a prefix is made every 10 seconds.

The BGP command to apply the dampening parameters is bgp dampening [\<Half\_Life\> \<ReuseLimit\> \<SuppressLimit\> \<MaximumSuppressTime\>] . The last parameter, \<MaximumSuppressTime\> , specifies the time limit to keep the prefix damped if it keeps oscillating. The default value is 4xHalf_Life ._
```
R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# bgp dampening 4 750 2000 16
R1(config-router)# exit
```
