---
name: 3.7.1.3
title: 3.7.1.3 - Update Source Modification
short-title: Update Source Modification
category: 3.7.1 Establishing Peerings
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.1.3.html
folder: bgp
---
If you run BGP on the physical interfaces, a problems may arise during failures. Even if the router has a backup path to its iBGP peer, if the BGP session is configured to the physical interface that is down, no re-routing of that session will occur. This is the reason that loopback interfaces are used - it removes any physical interface dependency from the iBGP topology. If a router has redundant paths to a peer, only one session needs to be configured between their loopback addresses, and if a link fails, the session is automatically rerouted to the backup path (by the IGP).

However, peering between loopbacks requires an extra step. you not only specify the neighbor’s loopback address instead of a physical address for the remote end of the session, you must also specify the local router’s loop- back interface as the originating end of the session. This is done by using the **neighbor update-source** command as below.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.17.10 remote-as 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.17.10 update-source Loopback0
```
Note that it is still standard practice to use physical interfaces for eBGP peering. One use case where you might use loopbacks with eBGP would be if you had unbundled multiple links between the eBGP peers.

Technically, only one neighbor needs to add the update-source command, as long as both agree on the destination of the peering. If R4 sets the update source to Loopback 0, but R5 does not, this ensures that R4 is always the TCP client and R5 is always the TCP server. In most designs, the update sources are modified on both sides for clarity.
