---
name: 3.7.13.4
title: 3.7.13.4 - BGP Table Versions
short-title: BGP Table Versions
category: 3.7.13 Miscellaneous BGP
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.13.4.html
folder: bgp
---
This was a topic not in the INE expanded blueprint. but I cover it here as it appears on some sample questions.

Table versions are used to track what has been received, the latest version of a prefix, and what still needs to be updated in the BGP table and RIB. There really are multiple table versions for different parts of the BGP / IOS process:
- each neighbor has a table version
- each prefix has a table version
- the RIB has a table version
- the BGP process has a table version

Each table version is really a 32-bit number. When BGP is converged, all of those table versions will be the same.

Here is how table versions are assigned.
1. When BGP initializes, the table version is set to 1 and is assigned to the RIB and its established neighbors.
2. When a prefix is received, the BGP table version is increased by 1 and the prefix is assigned that number. So if prefixes A, B, and C arrive in that order, their table versions will be 2, 3 and 4. The BGP table version is therefore the highest table version number of all the prefixes.
3. If a prefix changes the BGP table version is incremented and the changed prefix is assigned the newly incremented table version number.
4. For each prefix that is withdrawn from the BGP table, the BGP table version is incremented by 1.
5. The BGP process walks through the BGP table looking for prefixes that have a higher table version that the equivalent prefix in the RIB. This indicates that the BGP table has a newer version and the RIB version needs to be updated. The RIB's table version becomes the highest table version of any prefix that has been added, changed, or withdrawn from the RIB.
6. When prefixes are advertised to a neighbor, the neighbor's table version is increased to the highest version number of any prefix advertised to that neighbor. If a prefix in the BGP table has a higher table version than the neighbor's table version, BGP knows that the prefix has not yet been advertised to that neighbor.

It is important to remember that table versions are assigned to prefixes in the BGP table, not to routes. So if a different routes arrives for the same prefix, only the first route that arrives will get its table version incremented. When new prefixes are added to the BGP table, the older prefixes retain the table version they were assigned. However, if an attribute changes which causes a prefix to have a different path, the prefix is assigned a new table version.

Comparing table version between neighbors is a quick and easy way to determine if BGP is converged on the router. A rapidly increasing table version along with high CPU utilization is a clear indicator that either the router is busy learning routes from a new peer or that there is an instability problem somewheer in the network.