---
name: 3.7.4.5
title: 3.7.4.5 - Conditional Route Injection
short-title: Conditional Route Injection
category: 3.7.4 BGP NLRI Origination
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.4.5.html
folder: bgp
---
Routes that are advertised through the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) are commonly aggregated to minimize the number of routes that are used and reduce the size of global routing tables. However, common route aggregation can obscure more specific routing information that is more accurate but not necessary to forward packets to their destinations. Routing accuracy is obscured by common route aggregation because a prefix that represents multiple addresses or hosts over a large topological area cannot be accurately reflected in a single route. Cisco IOS software provides several methods in which you can originate a prefix into BGP. The existing methods include redistribution and using the network or aggregate-address command. These methods assume the existence of more specific routing information (matching the route to be originated) in either the routing table or the BGP table.

The BGP Conditional Route Injection feature allows you to originate a prefix into a BGP routing table without the corresponding match. This feature allows more specific routes to be generated based on administrative policy or traffic engineering information in order to provide more specific control over the forwarding of packets to these more specific routes, which are injected into the BGP routing table only if the configured conditions are met. Enabling this feature will allow you to improve the accuracy of common route aggregation by conditionally injecting or replacing less specific prefixes with more specific prefixes. Only prefixes that are equal to or more specific than the original prefix may be injected. The BGP Conditional Route Injection feature is enabled with the **bgp inject-map exist-map** command. This command uses two route maps (inject-map and exist-map) to install one (or more) more specific prefix into a BGP routing table. The exist-map specifies the prefixes that the BGP speaker will track. The inject-map defines the prefixes that will be created and installed into the local BGP table.

The BGP Conditional Route Injection feature allows you to inject more specific prefixes into a BGP routing table over less specific prefixes that were selected through normal route aggregation. These more specific prefixes can be used to provide a finer granularity of traffic engineering or administrative control than is possible with aggregated routes.
```
`R1(config)# ip prefix-list ROUTE permit 10.1.1.0/24
R1(config)# ip prefix-list ORIGINATED_ROUTES permit 10.1.1.0/25_
R1(config)# ip prefix-list ORIGINATED_ROUTES permit 10.1.1.128/25_
R1(config)# ip prefix-list ROUTE_SOURCE permit 10.2.1.1/32_
R1(config-router)# route-map LEARNED permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address prefix-list ROUTE
R1(config-route-map)# match ip route-source prefix-list ROUTE_SOURCE_
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# route-map ORIGINATE permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# set ip address prefix-list ORIGINATED_ROUTES_
R1(config-route-map)# set community 14616:555 additive
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 65534
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.2.1.1 remote-as 65535
R1(config-router)# bgp inject-map ORIGINATE exist-map LEARNED
```
`To break down the above, if the bgp process receives a BGP advertisement for 10.1.1.0/24 from neighbor 10.2.1.1, then it installs in the BGP table NLRI for 10.1.1.0/25 and 10.1.1.128/25 instead of 10.1.1.0/24.
