---
name: 3.7.6.6
title: 3.7.6.6 - AS-Set
short-title: AS-Set
category: 3.7.6 BGP Aggregation
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.6.6.html
folder: bgp
---
Remember this from our introduction on BGP Aggregates:

With no additional options, the **agregate-address** command will create a new prefix in the BGP table with an empty AS-PATH, so the aggregate prefix looks as though it was originated in the local AS. The new prefix will automatically have the weight value of 32768 and have a special attribute called ATOMIC_AGGREGATE assigned. The new attribute is informational and tells the other BGP speakers that this prefix is a result of route aggregation, and some information (like AS_PATH or other attributes) from the original prefixes may be missing. In addition to the ATOMIC_AGGREGATE attribute, BGP attaches another attribute called AGGREGATOR to the summarized prefix. This attribute specifies the AS number and the BGP router-ID of the aggregating router. Just like the ATOMIC_AGGREGATE, the new attribute is also informational. 

The original prefixes may have been advertised to the summary router by another AS, but when the aggregate router creates its summary, it makes it appear as though it originated the routes, This could lead to routing inefficiencies. If a downstream router has a more specific prefix that is part of the aggregate, and that prefix becomes unreachable, and the downstream router is also being advertised the aggregate, then it will start sending traffic to the aggregate router. But if there is fate sharing and the destination prefix is truly down, then this is just an unneeded step as the packet should have just been dropped.

To remedy this problem the aggregate router can advertise an AS\_SET in addition to the AS\_SEQUENCE as part of the AS\_PATH attribute, by adding the **as-set** keyword to the **aggregate-address** statement. The AS\_SET is not included by default so the above command needs to be issued.

The AS\_SET element is inserted into the AS\_PATH of the newly created summary prefix and contains the AS numbers found in all AS\_PATHs of the specific prefixes. This list of AS numbers is unordered, unlike the regular AS\_SEQUENCE element. Its only use is for routing loop prevention; when BGP receives a prefix, it scans the AS_PATH attribute. If the local AS number is found in any of the AS_SET or AS_SEQUENCE elements, the prefix is dropped. 
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# aggregate-address 112.0.0.0 248.0.0.0 summary-only as-set
R1(config-router)# exit
```
`