---
name: 3.7.4.2
title: 3.7.4.2 - Redistribution
short-title: Redistribution
category: 3.7.4 BGP NLRI Origination
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.4.2.html
folder: bgp
---
Prefixes can also be injected into BGP by redistribution. Although this case study examines redistribution from an IGP to BGP, you need to know that this technique is almost always discouraged. With **network** statements you can be specific about what prefixes are advertised to an EBGP peer; redistribution means that by default you tell the EBGP peer everything that your IGP knows.

Route filters are almost always needed when doing redistribution from an IGP to BGP, because by default, every known IGP route is redistributed. In actual practice, redistribution of IGP prefixes into BGP is rarely used because of this lack of precise control.

Using **network** statements rather than redistribution is also preferred from a troubleshooting standpoint: A list of **network** statements tells you positively what prefixes you are injecting; redistribution coupled with a route filter tells you only what you are not injecting.

With those warnings in place, here is an example.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# redistribute eigrp 200
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.1.26 remote-as 65536
R1(config-router)# exit
```

In case some routes are not injected into the FIB (indicated by an “r” in the BGP table), you can check the cause using **show ip bgp rib-failure**.

Specific to IOS, a route injected with the network statement is preferred over a route to the same destination injected by redistribution (assuming the Weight, LOCAL_ PREF, and AS_PATH length of the two routes are the same).
