---
name: 3.7.7.1
title: 3.7.7.1 - Standard
short-title: Standard
category: 3.7.7 BGP Communities
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.7.1.html
folder: bgp
---
Whereas peer templates and the older peer groups enable you to apply common polices to a group of peers, communities enable you to apply policies to a group of routes. A community is a route attribute and therefore is attached to a route and passed from one BGP speaker to another when the route is advertised.

The advantage of communities is that, using a route map, you can assign one or more community attributes to a route at some point in the network—either in the local autonomous systems or even in another autonomous system—and then, at some other point in the network, apply a policy to all routes belonging to a given community. The most common use of communities is in autonomous systems with many BGP peers. By applying policies to community attributes rather than by routes, you do not have to change the policy configuration every time the routes advertised into the AS change.

BGP Communities are optional transitive attributes used mainly to associate an administrative tag to a route. All prefixes with the same community essentially belong to the same group and share some property. Using communities allows for manipulation of BGP prefixes based on their “meaning” (customer prefixes, peer prefixes, upstream networks, etc.), not the network values. Even though the BGP community attribute is transitive, Cisco IOS routers do not pass it across BGP sessions by default. To start sending the community values to a particular peer, you must activate this feature by using the command **neighbor send-community** .

A community is a 32-bit number, configured in the following steps:
1. Use a route map to identify the routes to which a community attribute is to be set
2. Use the **set community** statement to set the community value
3. Use the **neighbor send community** statement to specify the neighbors to which community attributes are sent. Without this statement a router does not pass community attributes to its peers.

The **set community** statement can add multiple communities in one line.

The value of a community attribute can be specified as a decimal number between 1 and 4294967200, or in AA:NN format where AA is a 16-bit AS number between 1 and 65535 and NN is an arbitrary 16-bit decimal number between 1 and 65440. IOS by default displays the community as a decimal value. To change to the AA:NN format you must add **ip bgp-community new-format** to your global configuration.
```
R1(config)# ip prefix-list EXP-POLICY seq 5 permit 10.5.2.0/24
R1(config)# route-map EXPORT permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address prefix-list EXP-POLICY
R1(config-route-map)# set community 500:100
R1(config)# route-map EXPORT permit 20
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 500
R1(config-router)# network 10.5.2.0 mask 255.255.255.0
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.0.0.37 remote-as 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.0.0.37 route-map EXPORT out
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.0.0.37 send-community
R1(config-router)# exit
```
At the receiving router (10.0.0.37 above), you could then define a policy based on the community. To match a community value, you *must* configure a **community-list** and use it in a route-map later
```
R1(config)# ip community-list 1 permit 500:100
R1(config)# route-map LOC-PREF permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match community 1
R1(config-route-map)# set local-preference 300
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.0.0.5 remote-as 500
R1(config-router)# exit
```
There a few communities that are well-known:

| **Attribute Name** | **AA:NN Value** | **Description** |
| Internet | 0:0 | Advertise to all |
| NO\_EXPORT | 65535:65281 | Do not advertise to eBGP Peers |
|NO\_ADVERTISE | 65535:65282 | Do not advertise to eBGP or iBGP Peers |
| LOCAL\_AS | 65535:65283 | Same as NO\_EXPORT but also applied to SubConfederations |
