---
name: 3.7.9.2
title: 3.7.9.2 - Local AS Replace-AS / Dual-AS
short-title: Local AS Replace-AS / Dual-AS
category: 3.7.9 AS-Path Manipulation
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.9.2.html
folder: bgp
---
Remember that when configuring the hide local AS feature, the external peers see both the local-AS and the real AS number prepended in front of the AS_PATH. Sometimes it is desirable to completely hide the “real” AS number (the one configured via the **router bgp \<RealAS\>** command). To accomplish this, use the **no-prepend replace-as** parameters to the **local-as** command. This combination will replace the real AS number with the one specified in the local-as command. The respective neighbor will be tricked into thinking that all routes are received from the AS number configured with the local-as command, because this number will appear in the AS_PATH and BGP OPEN message. Remember that such replacement could lead to routing loops, if the original AS were partitioned using two AS numbers.

With the replace-AS feature configured, the external peer could be configured to peer using the real AS number—for example, the AS number that would be used after migration. In this case, it is possible to configure the “hiding” peer to initiate/accept BGP sessions using both AS numbers (the real number and the local number). The external peer will accept the correct number and negotiate the BGP session. The “hiding” peer will then use the negotiated AS number to prepend the updates sent to the external peer. This is configured using the **dual-as** statement.
```
R1(config)# no router bgp 100
R1(config)# router bgp 146
R1(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.13.3 local-as 100 no-prepend replace-as
```
In the above, neighbor 155.1.13.3 will only see AS 100 in the AS\_PATH and BGP OPEN messages.
```
R1(config)# no router bgp 100
R1(config)# router bgp 146
R1(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.13.3 local-as 100 no-prepend replace-as dual-as
```
When using the **dual-as** statement, now neighbor 155.1.13.3 will be able to peer with R1 using AS 146, the new AS. The AS\_PATH will show 146. If you changed neighbor 155.1.13.3 to now peer with AS 100, the AS\_PATH would change to AS 100.
