---
name: 3.7.8.2
title: 3.7.8.2 - Standard Access-Lists
short-title: Standard Access-Lists
category: 3.7.8 Filtering
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.8.2.html
folder: bgp
---
Using a standard access-list for BGP filtering is not as performance-effective as using prefix lists. In addition, a standard access-list does not allow you to specify the prefix-length, only the subnet numbers. However, this approach offers some unique features not available with prefix-lists, such as selecting a range of subnet numbers.

Because the wildcard mask does not represent the prefix subnet mask, you may make it discontinuous. This allows for some “oddball” filtering, such as permitting odd/even prefixes. Because of the binary nature of the wildcard mask, the number of prefixes selected is always a power of 2: 2^0, 2^1, 2^2, and so on. For example, the combination 23.0.1.0 14.0.0.255 would match 8x256 subnets (3 bits set to 1 in the first octet and 8 bits set to 1 in the last octet), such as 23.0.1.64, 21.0.1.128, 17.0.1.32, and so on. The key is to transform the subnet number into binary format and apply the wildcard mask by walking over all possible combinations.

To associate the access-list with a BGP peer, use the command **neighbor \<IP\> distribute-list [in|out]**. Note that you cannot use prefix-list-based and access-list- based filtering at the same time; that is, you cannot apply the** distribute- list/prefix-list ** commands at the same time for the same peer. However, you may freely mix those commands in a route-map.
```
R1(config)# ip access-list standard BLOCK222
R1(config-acl)# deny 222.22.2.0
R1(config-acl)# permit any
R1(config-acl)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.10.1.254 distribute-list BLOCK222 in
R1(config-router)# exit
```
