---
name: 3.7.1.7
title: 3.7.1.7 - TTL Security
short-title: TTL Security
category: 3.7.1 Establishing Peerings
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.1.7.html
folder: bgp
---
TTL Security is a feature to help prevent foreign attacks on a router through a BGP session. If the attacker is outside your service provider’s network, then there is not much they could do except attempt a DOS attack on your BGP process. Assuming your BGP is configured correctly, there would be no threat of establishing an invalid connection. However, your router could still be flooded with thousands of TCP connections into the BGP process which could eventually cause your BGP peerings to valid neighbors to fail. This is where TTL Security comes in.

First, both the service provider and the customer edge router must play along. The trick is in that it is impossible to accurately spoof TTL results without having control over the service provider's network, and if that's the case, you have much bigger problems! 

The trick is that the TTL of the packet is set to 255 on both sides. As the TTL is decremented down the line on its way to the neighbor router, it will come in with a predictable final TTL. If the final TTL when it arrives at the peer is \>= TTL defined by your router, the TCP packet is allowed up the control plane, where the BGP process takes over. Otherwise the packet is dropped with *no ICMP response*. Why respond to an attacker?

When a router has enabled TTL security for a neighbor, the router automatically sets the TTL to 255 for TCP packets sent to that neighbor. You then set the **neighbor ttl-security** to the number of hops the TTL will be decremented as the neighbor’s packet travels towards you. If a TCP packet arrives with a TTL less than (255 - hops-to-peer), then the packet is discarded as described above.

Both routers in the peering relationship need to have the feature enabled. If not, then 1 router would send its packets with a TTL of 1 and the other would send it with a TTL of 255.

Another caveat is that **neighbor ttl-security** is not compatible with eBGP multihop.