---
name: 3.7.3.4
title: 3.7.3.4 - Next Hop Tracking
short-title: Next Hop Tracking
category: 3.7.3 BGP Next Hop Processing
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.3.4.html
folder: bgp
---
BGP Next Hop Tracking is a feature that helps shorten the time that BGP learns about changes to next-hop prefixes within the underlying BGP. The BGP Scanner is too slow to identify these changes itself.  The idea is to make the BGP process register the next-hop values with the RIB “watcher” process and require a “call-back” every time information about the prefix corresponding to the next-hop changes. Typically, the number of registered next-hop values equals the number of exits from the local AS, or the number of PEs in MPLS/BGP VPN environment, so next-hop tracking does not impose heavy memory/CPU requirements. There are normally two types of events: IGP prefix becoming unreachable and IGP prefix metric change.

The first event is more important and reported faster than metric change. Overall, IGP delays report of an event for the duration of **bgp nexthop trigger delay XX** interval which is 5 seconds by default. This allows for more consecutive events to be processed and received from IGP and effectively implements event aggregation. This delay is helpful in various “fate sharing” scenarios where a facility failure affects multiple links in the network, and BGP needs to ensure that all IGP nodes have reported this failure and IGP has fully converged.

Normally, you should set the NHT delay to be slightly above the time it takes the IGP to fully converge upon a change in the network. In a fast-tuned IGP network, you can set this delay to as low as 0 seconds, so that every IGP event is reported immediately, though this requires careful underlying IGP tuning to avoid oscillations.

The feature is enabled by default. If of some reason you need to disable NHT, use the following.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 65535
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 unicast
R1(config-router-af)# no bgp next hop trigger enable
R1(config-router-af)# exit
R1(config-router)#
```
