---
name: 3.7.4.1
title: 3.7.4.1 - Network Statement
short-title: Network Statement
category: 3.7.4 BGP NLRI Origination
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.4.1.html
folder: bgp
---
The most common, and usually the most reliable, means of injecting prefixes into BGP with IOS is the network statement. You must be careful not to confuse the BGP net- work statement with the IGP network statement; they do two different things. When you are configuring an IGP, you use a network statement to specify an address range, which might be as general as 0.0.0.0, which encompasses all possible addresses, or as specific as a single IP address. The IGP is then enabled on all interfaces whose addresses are included in the range given by the network statement.

The BGP network statement, however, has nothing to do with enabling the protocol on interfaces. Instead, it specifies a prefix to be injected into the local BGP process.

When prefixes are specified with the **network** statement, BGP looks into the IP routing table. If the specified prefix is not in that table, BGP does not enter it into the BGP table. That is, BGP does not inject a prefix unless the router has a valid path to the destination. By default, the IGP metric of the injected prefix becomes the MULTI_EXIT_DISC (MED) attribute of the advertised BGP route, which displays in the BGP table as “Metric.” Prefixes injected with the network statement will always have an ORIGIN attribute
of IGP.

Network Layer Reachability Information field of the BGP Update message consists of (Length, Prefix) tuples where the Length specifies the prefix length. When the prefix you want to advertise is a Class A, B, or C, you can specify just the prefix with the **network** statement and IOS’s BGP implementation fills in the corresponding 8- 16- or 24-bit Length value (an artifact of the pre-CIDR days). But when the prefix length is anything else, you need to tell IOS what value to use in the Length part of the (Length, Prefix) tuple. For this, you use the **network mask** statement.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# network 192.168.0.0
R1(config-router)# network 192.168.1.8 mask 255.255.255.252
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.10.10.2 remote-as 65536
R1(config-router)# exit
```
`
