---
name: 3.7.13.3
title: 3.7.13.3 - BGP Backdoor
short-title: BGP Backdoor
category: 3.7.13 Miscellaneous BGP
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.13.3.html
folder: bgp
---
BGP prefixes learned from eBGP peers have the AD value of 20, the lowest among all dynamic routing protocols. This was done intentionally to prevent possible routing loops caused by redistribution of BGP routes into IGP. The local router always trusts the prefixes learned from external peers because they have passed the loop detection test.

In some cases, two autonomous systems may be connected by a “backdoor” link used to exchange routes between the ASs dynamically, by means of an IGP. This may be the result of a split or merger. In any case, the issue is that the backdoor link is usually preferred to exchange traffic between the two ASs. However, if both systems peer with another external AS, the border BGP routers will choose the prefix advertised via eBGP over the same prefix received across the backdoor link via IGP.

To resolve this issue, you may change the AD of eBGP routes to the true external peers, but this may increase the risk of routing loops. There is a special command in the BGP configuration mode used to explicitly change the distance of an eBGP prefix: **network \<subnet\> mask \<netmask\> backdoor**. Remember that the purpose of this command is to change the AD of a particular eBGP prefix from 20 to 200, not to advertise a new network. Thus, the command applies to non-local prefixes as well. When the command is entered, the eBGP speakers will prefer paths learned via IGP and utilize the backdoor link.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# network 150.1.77.0 mask 255.255.255.0 backdoor
R1(config-router)# exit
```
`
