---
name: 3.7.10.1
title: 3.7.10.1 - BGP Timers Tuning
short-title: BGP Timers Tuning
category: 3.7.10 BGP Convergence Optimization
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.10.1.html
folder: bgp
---
The BGP routing process is complicated and uses many data structures and periodically scheduled tasks. One of the most important BGP processes is “BGP scanner,” which performs the following important functions: 
1. Runs through all prefixes in BGP table and checks the validity and reachability of the BGP NEXT_HOP attribute. _
2. Performs conditional advertisement and route injection
3. Imports new routes into the BGP table from the RIB (via network and redistribute commands).
4. Performs route dampening.

The BGP scanner runs every 60 seconds by default. You can change this interval by using the command **bgp scan-time \<5-60\>**. The shorter the interval, the faster the convergence, but the CPU takes on more load.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# bgp scan-time 20
```
`
Another important BGP process is BGP I/O which processes BGP UPDATE and KEEPALIVE messages. By default, BGP batches all new prefixes and delays the sending of an update packet to the peer until the next advertisement-interval timer expires. This interval is configured on a per-peer basis using the command **neighbor \<IP\> advertisement-interval \<seconds\>**. Decreasing this interval (the minimum value is zero) improves BGP convergence but generates more BGP traffic and puts more stress on the router’s CPU.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.17.254 advertisement-interval 0
```
`
The last important timer is the BGP session keepalive interval. Keepalives are important for validating BGP session health, to avoid routing black holes. BGP peers advertise the hold time interval when establishing the BGP peering session and send KEEPALIVE message to inform each other of their availability. Peers may advertise different hold-time intervals—it is only important that the peer receive the KEEPALIVE message until its hold-time interval expires. You can change the keepalive and hold-time periods on a per-process basis by using the command **timers bgp \<keepalive\> \<holdtime\>** . The default values are 60 and 180 for keepalive and holdtime intervals, respectively. Setting the keepalive interval too small results in faster peering deactivation detection, but it may lead to “false positives” and disruption of the BGP session by mistake and excessive route flapping. Remember that you must completely reset the BGP session for the new keepalive timers to take effect. If you want to observe the BGP keepalive exchange process, use the command **debug ip bgp keepalive**. 
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# timers bgp 5 15
```
`Here is a great INE article describing the convergence process in BGP: [link][1].

[1]:	http://blog.ine.com/2010/11/22/understanding-bgp-convergence/