---
name: 3.7.6.2
title: 3.7.6.2 - Aggregation
short-title: Aggregation
category: 3.7.6 BGP Aggregation
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.6.2.html
folder: bgp
---
Route aggregation is the key for information hiding. It is critical to BGP because of the tremendous amount of routing information passed on the Internet. There are three basic ways to do summarization in BGP:
- Create a summary prefix in IGP and advertise it into BGP using the **network** command. This is usually accomplished by creating a static route to Null0 in the routing table of the advertising router. This is a common way to advertise local prefixes into BGP. However, you cannot summarize external BGP prefixes using this method.
- Use auto-summarization. As discussed in another task, this method summarizes networks to their classful boundaries and only applies to redistributed prefixes or when using the classful **network** command. It is not used in modern networks.
- Summarize prefixes found in BGP tables by using the **aggregate-address** command. This is the most flexible way to do summarization, because it may be applied to any paths learned by the BGP speaker. *This is critical* - routes are summarized out of the BGP table, not the IP routing table when summarization is performed in this manner.

Using the **aggregate-address \<prefix\> \<mask\>** command is the most flexible and allows manipulating BGP attributes. For the command to work, there must be a subnet in the BGP table that is encompassed by the summarized prefix. Note that the route does not have to be in the FIB, just the BGP table.

With no additional options, the **agregate-address** command will create a new prefix in the BGP table with an empty AS-PATH, so the aggregate prefix looks as though it was originated in the local AS. The new prefix will automatically have the weight value of 32768 and have a special attribute called ATOMIC_AGGREGATE assigned. The new attribute is informational and tells the other BGP speakers that this prefix is a result of route aggregation, and some information (like AS_PATH or other attributes) from the original prefixes may be missing. In addition to the ATOMIC_AGGREGATE attribute, BGP attaches another attribute called AGGREGATOR to the summarized prefix. This attribute specifies the AS number and the BGP router-ID of the aggregating router. Just like the ATOMIC_AGGREGATE, the new attribute is also informational.

For every aggregate, the BGP process will install an automatic static route to Null0 for the new prefix, to prevent routing loops. Remember that the original (specific) prefixes are still advertised, unlike in IGP, where summarization automatically suppresses more specific prefixes.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# network 10.0.0.0 mask 255.255.255.0
R1(config-router)# network 10.0.1.0 mask 255.255.255.0
R1(config-router)# network 10.0.2.0 mask 255.255.255.0
R1(config-router)# network 10.0.3.0 mask 255.255.255.0
R1(config-router)# aggregate-address 10.0.0.0 255.255.252.0
R1(config-router)# exit
```
