---
name: 3.7.1.9
title: 3.7.1.9 - Private and 4 Byte ASNs
short-title: Private and 4 Byte ASNs
category: 3.7.1 Establishing Peerings
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.1.9.html
folder: bgp
---
#### Private AS Numbers
- consist of numbers 64512 - 65534
- purpose is the same as IPv4 RFC1918 addresses - conservation
- 3 common uses
	- A service provider may assign a private ASN to a “stub” customer - that is, a customer that is not connected to any other service provider. The SP filters private ASNs out of the AS\_PATH of any routes received from these stub customers before advertising them to the public Internet.
	- Private ASNs number the sub-autonomous systems in confederations, described later in this section. Again, the private ASNs are removed from the AS\_PATH of routes within a confederation before they are advertised outside of the confederation boundary.
	- Again, like private IPv4 addresses, private ASNs are frequently used in documentation as generic numbers to avoid the chance of using someone’s actual assigned number and possibly causing objections. Although ASNs such as 1, 2, 3... or 100, 200, 300... are often used in examples in this book for simplicity, private ASNs are used in the examples in which they make sense.

Like private IPv4 addresses, it is important that private AS numbers not be advertised to the public Internet or into any network in a prefix’s AS_PATH where they may no longer be unique. IOS does not remove private ASNs from an AS_PATH by default; to remove them, use the **neighbor remove-private-as** statement.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.0.0.34 remove private-as
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The effects of removing private ASNs from an AS\_PATH before advertising a prefix upstream is similar to the effects of route aggregation. Best path determination is made with AS100 as the last ASN on the AS\_PATH list. When packets are forwarded to AS100, that AS has the further detail necessary to find the path to the connected private AS.

#### 4-Byte AS Numbers
Another parallel between AS numbers and IP addresses is that even with the use of private ASNs the pool of publicly unique 2-byte ASNs is being depleted. The answer to this resource depletion also has its parallels to IP addresses: Just as IPv6, with its much larger address space, has been developed to augment and eventually replace IPv4, 4-byte (32-bit) autonomous system numbers were developed to provide a newer, larger pool of AS numbers. Where the 16-bit ASN pool is composed of 65,535 ASNs, the 4-byte ASN pool is composed of more than 4.3 billion ASNs. BGP support for 4-byte ASNs is specified in RFC 6793.

For IOS versions that support 4-byte ASNs, there is no special configuration needed other than just specifying the ASN in the **router bgp** statement. A router supporting 4-byte ASNs can also still support 2-byte ASNs.

The 4-byte ASN range is 65536 - 4,294,967,295. There are two formats for displaying ASNs in a 4-byte environment. *ASPlain Format* is the usual integer format we are used to such as 65536. *ASDot Format* displays the 4-byte ASN as two 16-bit numbers separated by a decimal as in 65535.1. To display ASNs in the ASDot format, you must add the **bgp asnotation dot** to the BGP configuration.

There is also support for a private ASN range in 4-byte ASNs just as there is in 2-byte ASNs. Although the 2-byte private ASN range is 64512—65535, the 4-byte private ASN range is 4200000000–4294967294 (64086.59904–65535.65534 in ASDot notation).
