name: 3.7.10.2
title: 3.7.10.2 - BGP Fast Fallover
short-title: BGP Fast Fallover
category: 3.7.10 BGP Convergence Optimization
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.10.2.html
folder: bgp
---
It is common to have eBGP peers directly connected across a physical interface. With point-to-point links, this allows for fast external session deactivation based on the interface protocol state. That is, as soon as the interface connecting to an external peer signals protocols down, the BGP process may deactivate the peering session without waiting for the hold-down time to expire. This feature is enabled by default for eBGP sessions using the BGP process command **bgp fast-external-fallover **.  Notice that this feature is only efficient when the peering session is established across the non-shared link; using it on NBMA and Ethernet interfaces might be inefficient. 

A more advanced version of this feature is available in the recent IOS release. The new feature is called “fast peering session deactivation support” and could be configured on a per-neighbor basis using the command **neighbor \<IP\> fall-over** . This feature applies to both iBGP and eBGP (mostly multi-hop) sessions and does not depend on interface state. The IGP route used to reach the peer configured for fast session deactivation is monitored by the BGP process. When the IGP route disappears, the BGP session gets immediately torn down unless there is a backup IGP route to reach the peer. Thus, the new feature is event driven and allows for fast detection of peering issues even for iBGP (non-direct) sessions. Notice that this feature has the same limitation as the fast-external-fallover; if the peer is connected via a shared interface, the router may not detect the loss of the directly connected IGP network. In situations like this, you may use point-to-point NBMA subinterfaces or reliable static /32 routes on the shared NBMA or Ethernet interfaces. BFD (Bidirectional Forwarding Detection) can be tied to the **neighbor \<IP\> fall-over** to overcome connections over shared segments. 
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# no bgp fast-external failover
R1(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.146.6 fall-over
```
`