---
name: 3.7.13.1
title: 3.7.13.1 - iBGP Synchronization
short-title: iBGP Synchronization
category: 3.7.13 Miscellaneous BGP
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.13.1.html
folder: bgp
---
According to Cisco’s BGP Bestpath Selection, “if BGP synchronization is enabled, there must be a match for the prefix in the IP routing table in order for an internal BGP (iBGP) path to be considered a valid path.” In other words, for every iBGP route learned, there must be a matching IGP route already before the BGP route can be used. This rule was designed to prevent traffic black holes in legacy network designs where not all devices in the BGP transit path actually ran BGP.

With synchronization enabled, the assumption was that all routers in a transit network already run IGP. If these devices have IGP routes to all BGP destinations, it was safe to assume that traffic coming from other BGP ASs would not be blackholed, even if some of the internal routers were not running BGP. To implement this design, it was also assumed that some sort of BGP-to-IGP redistribution would occur.

The problem with this model, however, is that IGP simply cannot scale to the size of the current Internet BGP table. Instead, current best practices dictate that if a network is used for Internet transit, the routing table should be default free (that is, no 0.0.0.0/0 routes), and all devices should run BGP. Another common design is to use other tunneling mechanisms, such as MPLS, to limit the number of devices on which BGP must be run.

BGP synchronization is disabled by default as of IOS 12.2(8)T, and it is rarely, if ever, needed in a real implementation anymore. However, it is still important to understand the problem that synchronization was designed to prevent, and what the different resolutions for this problem are.

To enable synchronization, simply use the **synchronization** command.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# synchronization
```
`