---
name: 3.7.5.5
title: 3.7.5.5 - MED
short-title: MED
category: 3.7.5 BGP Bestpath Selection
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.5.5.html
folder: bgp
---
What if, rather than influencing outgoing path selection, you want to influence incoming path selection? That is, when you advertise a prefix to multiple external peers in a neighboring AS, you want to “tell” the neighboring AS which route to prefer. One way of accomplishing this is to attach a MED attribute to the advertised prefixes. The route with the *lowest* MED is preferred.

The MULTI_EXIT_DISC attribute, or MED, is used to influence the routing decisions in neighboring autonomous systems. The MED is also known as the external metric and is labeled as “metric” in the BGP table. Like LOCAL_PREF, the MED is a 4-octet number and therefore can be any number from 0 to 4294967295.

MED is an optional, nontransitive attribute. When a BGP speaker learns a route from an external peer, it can pass the route’s MED to any IBGP peers. But a router cannot advertise a MED that was originated in a neighboring AS to a peer in another AS. As a result, the MED has relevance only between neighboring autonomous systems. There are specific rules in IOS regarding MED behavior:

- If a prefix is advertised from its originating AS to a neighboring AS, the MED is preserved and is known by all IBGP routers within the neighboring AS, with some caveats.
	- if the eBGP peer does not originate the route, but instead one of its iBGP peers originates the route, the MED will not be advertised to neighboring autonomous systems
	- if the eBGP peer originates the BGP route locally, the border router advertises the MED when sending the prefix. The MED value is determined based on this criteria:
		- If the injected BGP route, using the **network** or **redistribute** command, is from the IGP, the BGP MED is determined from the IGP metric
		- If the injected BGP route, using the **network** or **redistribute** command, is from a connected route, the BGP MED is set to 0
		- If the route is injected by the aggregate-address command, the MED is not set
- If the neighboring AS advertises the route to any of its own neighboring autonomous systems, it must remove the MED attribute before advertising.
- If a router receives a route with no MED from an EBGP peer, it records the route in its BGP table as-is, with no MED
- If a router has a route in its BGP table with no MED and is going to advertise the route to an IBGP peer, it first adds a MED to the route with a default value of 0.

The IETF description of MED has often been vague, so it is implemented different ways by different vendors. This often leads to poor interoperability so be careful when working in a mixed vendor environment.

IOS provides a statement, **bgp bestpath med missing-as-worst**, to help when adjusting default behaviors. When this statement is included in the BGP configuration, IOS will use a value of 4294967295 as the default value when adding a MED to routes with missing MEDs rather than 0.

A MED attribute is added to a route by using a route-map and one of two **set** clauses:
- **set metric** is used when you want to set the metric to some specific value between 0 and 4294967295. Use this clause when you want to manually control the MED value.
- **set metric-type internal** is used when you want to link the MED to the IGP metric of the route’s next hop. That is, rather than manually setting the MED value, the router automatically sets the MED to the same value as the IGP metric of the route to the prefix’s next hop. When multiple routers are advertising a prefix to a neighboring AS, using this clause ensures that the router closest to the prefix’s next hop advertises the lowest MED - and hence, the neighboring AS is asked to send packets to the AS border router closest to the destination. If the IGP metric to the prefix’s next hop changes, the MED also changes - although BGP readvertises only the changed MED every 10 minutes, to help reduce destabilization when an IGP route to a next-hop is flapping.
```
R1(config)# ip prefix-list ROUTES seq 5 permit 10.20.0.0/16
R1(config)# route-map MED permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address prefix-list ROUTES
R1(config-route-map)# set metric 5
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.100.17.2 remote-as 64514
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.100.17.2 route-map MED out
R1(config-router)# exit
```
One interesting thing to note is that if the same route is advertised from external peers in different autonomous systems, the MEDs of the routes are ignored by default. So MED is truly only capable of affecting inbound traffic paths from one AS to another. We will see that there is a way to change this default behavior. 
