---
name: 3.7.9.4
title: 3.7.9.4 - Allow AS In
short-title: Allow AS In
category: 3.7.9 AS-Path Manipulation
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.9.4.html
folder: bgp
---
The BGP loop-prevention mechanism does not allow a BGP speaker to accept prefixes with the local AS number in the AS_PATH list. However, in some cases, it would be desirable to accept the routes originated in the same AS via another AS. There are two common scenarios:_
1. The company’s network is partitioned, and every partition connects to the Internet or ISP. Every network has its own set of prefixes but uses the same AS number. In this case, for the partitions to exchange prefixes, they must accept the NLRIs with the same AS number.
2. The company connects to an ISP and wants to use it as a transit path in case the company’s network becomes segmented due to an emergency. In this case, the prefixes advertised to the ISP must be accepted back by the border peers.

Cisco IOS allows for accepting the prefixes with the local AS number from a specific peer using the command *neighbor \<IP\> allowas-in [\<count\>]*. Here, \<count\> is the number of the local AS number occurrences in the AS_PATH attribute, which defaults to three. This parameter serves a purpose similar to the hop-count limit in distance-vector protocol and implements the well-known count-to-infinity loop prevention technique._

To prevent routing loops with this feature, you should be careful when implementing prefix aggregation. Specifically, only one “partition” or border peer can implement summarization, or summarization should not be used at all. Otherwise, the upstream ASs will have trouble selecting the proper entry point to the AS partitions. Needless to mention, using the AllowAS in feature is highly NOT recommended and only advised as a last resort. In a Layer 3 MPLS-VPNs environment, this feature can be used safely by sites that connect into the same service provider and don't have a backdoor link. The sites can all share the same AS and configure **neighbor \<IP\> allowas-in [\<count\>]** toward their provider edge router. Alternatively, the service provider can use the **neighbor \<IP\> as-override** command if the customer sites of the Layer 3 MPLS VPN have routers that don't support allowas-in.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.146.4 allows-in
R1(config-router)# exit
```
