---
name: 3.7.9.5
title: 3.7.9.5 - AS Override
short-title: AS Override
category: 3.7.9 AS-Path Manipulation
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.9.5.html
folder: bgp
---
{% include image.html file="as-override.png" %}

This is a typical MPLS network where the customer private AS is partitioned from the provider backbone. Should R1 want to get to a device on R5, the path would be AS65002 -\> AS65001. That is good and fine, except for the fact that standard BGP will not allow this. If R5 sees that the path includes its own AS number along the way, it will not accept this information about the route and will drop it.

If you are having an issue and suspect that this is the cause, run a debug (always be careful with debugs in a live, production environment). The command to use is **debug ip bgp all updates**. If the as-override situation is the cause of a route not showing up, you will see the message *DENIED due to:AS-PATH contains our own AS*. That will be a dead giveaway. On the provider edge router, in our case R2 and R4, you want to add an additional neighbor statement: “neighbor X.X.X.X as-override”. The connection will flap and reset, but then for that hop in the path, the provider router will replace the AS number with it’s own. In our case, instead of seeing 65001 and 65002 in the path, the path will be 65002 -\> 65002. The route will then be showing in our routing table as well! Otherwise, if you can’t do the debug, just check the AS numbers again and see if there are any matches between customer edge devices.
