---
name: 3.7.1.11
title: 3.7.1.11 - Path MTU Discovery
short-title: Path MTU Discovery
category: 3.7.1 Establishing Peerings
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.1.11.html
folder: bgp
---
BGP neighbors form a TCP client-server connection. To establish the session, the two routers go through the standard TCP negotiation process involving one BGP speaker act- ing as the TCP client initiating a TCP connection to the other BGP speaker, acting as a TCP server. The client attempts to open the session to TCP port 179 by sending a SYN message to the server. The server replies with a SYN ACK message. Finally, the client replies with an ACK message, at which point the TCP session is established and the BGP speakers start exchanging OPEN messages, all the way up to neighbor establishment where both peers, assuming the BGP speakers do not face any issues, settle in the established state.

TCP performance is tuned by two parameters: the Maximum Segment Size (MSS) and the TCP Window Size.

The MSS, which is “negotiated” during the exchange of the SYN messages, determines the maximum size of a TCP segment that is sent between two TCP endpoints. The reason this value is significant is because it determines how much data can be “packed” into a single TCP segment. The bigger the MSS, the more routes can be packed into one TCP segment, and therefore, the more routes can be sent into less UPDATE messages. The TCP MSS is closely associated with the Maximum Transmission Unit, which in turn determines how big an IP packet can be without being fragmented if it sent one IP node to the another IP node. The TCP MSS value is the value of the MTU minus 20 bytes
for the IP header and minus another 20 bytes for the TCP header. For example, for the Ethernet MTU, which is 1500 bytes, the TCP MSS can be up to 1460 bytes.

RFC 1191 defines a feature called Path MTU Discovery, which provides a means to dynamically discover the MTU over a path between two IP nodes. This is how it works: A node with PMTUD enabled sends out a packet with the Don’t Fragment (DF) bit set to a destination IP node. The size of this packet is the size of the next-hop interface’s MTU. The packet traverses the L2 link to the next hop and is then switched to the exit interface on to the second hop. If the receiving interface of the second hop has a lower MTU than the size of the packet, the packet is discarded and an ICMP Destination Unreachable message (with a code meaning “fragmentation needed and DF set”—also called “Datagram Too Big” message) is sent back to the packet source. This ICMP message also contains the value of the lower MTU of the receiving interface of the router that discarded the packet. A new packet is then generated at the source router with a size equal to the newer, lower MTU and sent toward the destination IP node, again. This process is repeated until the source router that has the PMTUD feature enabled deter- mines the smallest MTU along the path to the destination IP node and uses this as its MTU, and in the process, determines the TCP MSS.

But why go through all this hassle to discover the MTU? Because if the IP packet has the Don’t Fragment (DF) bit set, and its size exceeds the link MTU, the packet is dropped. Alternatively, if the DF bit is not set and the packet size exceeds the link MTU, the packet is fragmented. Fragmenting IP packets into smaller packets that are MTU compliant adds processing overhead both during fragmentation and reassembly. The newly formed fragmented packets each have new headers and therefore more overhead. Rearranging out-of-order fragments is a challenge. One fragment could be lost during transmission, which calls for re-sending the whole original packet. These are just a few of the downsides of fragmentation. Therefore, the PMTUD feature adds great efficiency to the transport over TCP.

PMTUD can be configured on Cisco IOS for the whole BGP process, or it can be configured per neighbor. PMTUD is enabled by default and no command shows in the configuration to indicate this, however, if it were disabled under the global BGP process, the following statement would appear:
```
no bgp transport path-mtu-discovery
```
MTUD can be enabled or disabled for one specific neighbor using the following statement under the address-family configuration.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.0.0.2 transport path-mtu-discovery disable
R1(config-router)# exit
```
