---
name: 3.7.5.7
title: 3.7.5.7 - Deterministic MED
short-title: Deterministic MED
category: 3.7.5 BGP Bestpath Selection
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.5.7.html
folder: bgp
---
There are two default IOS NGP behaviors to understand before explaining Deterministic MED. he first is how multiple routes to the same destination are evaluated in the BGP table. IOS evaluates them “top down,” two at a time. That is, if there are four entries, entries #1 and #2 are evaluated and the best route is chosen from the two based on the BGP decision process. That selected route is then evaluated against entry #3 and the best of the two is selected. That entry is evaluated against entry #4 and the best of those two is selected by the decision process. The “winner” of this final round then becomes the overall best route.

The other default IOS BGP behavior has to do with how received routes to the same prefix are recorded. As each route is received, an entry is added to the “top” of the list of entries for that prefix. For instance, in Example 4-93, there are three entries for prefix 10.20.0.0/16. Entry #1 from 10.200.60.1 is the newest, and entry #3 from 172.30.255.150 is the oldest. If another route to 10.20.0.0/16 was received, it would become entry #1 and the other entries would move down one increment. The oldest received route is always at the bottom of the list.

These two behaviors can cause some inconsistencies in the way BGP chooses a best path. The selection of the best route changes according to the order of the entries, and the order of the entries depends on the order in which the routes are first received. The result is an inconsistent best path selection procedure. That is, the best path selection is nondeterministic.

IOS provides an option for making the best path selection deterministic. When the **bgp deterministic-med** statement is added to the BGP configuration, entries into the table are grouped by advertising ASN rather than simply listed newest to oldest. The best entry from each group is then compared. Comparisons between entries from the same AS, in which the MEDs are a factor, are made before comparisons between entries from different autonomous systems, in which the MEDs are not considered.

Although bgp deterministic-med is not enabled in IOS by default, modern best practice recommends using it to ensure consistent, predictable BGP path selection behavior when the same prefix is being learned from more than one AS. In most cases this circumstance will apply to service provider networks or to multihomed stub autonomous systems. However, if you use this option it is important that it be used on all BGP routers in your AS. Inconsistent use can cause unpredictable and possibly conflicting route selection.