---
name: 3.7.8.7
title: 3.7.8.7 - Soft Reconfiguration Inbound
short-title: Soft Reconfiguration Inbound
category: 3.7.8 Filtering
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.8.7.html
folder: bgp
---
Until RFC2918 introduced the Route Refresh capability to BGP, it was impossible to signal a remote BGP peer to re-advertise the prefixes (Adj-RIB-Out) to the local peer. This feature is very helpful in situations where the local peer changes inbound filtering policy and needs the peer to re-advertise the routing information. The only way to accomplish the policy refresh was to tear down and re-establish the peering session, which could be very resource consuming and cause connectivity disruption. Before the Route Refresh capability became standardized, one workaround was to use the so-called soft-reconfiguration approach.

When a local BGP speaker is configured to apply soft-reconfiguration to a peer using the command neighbor \<IP\> soft-reconfiguration inbound the speaker will accept ALL prefixes from the remote peer and store them in a separate memory buffer (of course, a session reset is required for this operation to initialize). The prefixes are then processed via the inbound filters and the resulting information imported into Adj-RIB-In and finally to the BGP table. Every time the local policy changes, there is no need to re-establish the peering session but simply apply the filters to the stored information. The penalty is the extra memory needed to store the routing information from the peer. Of course, this feature became deprecated with the introduction of Route Refresh capability.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.1.254 soft-reconfiguration inbound
R1(config-router)# exit
```
To then use soft reconfiguration, use the following:
```
R1# clear ip bgp 192.168.1.254 soft in
```
