---
name: 3.7.5.3
title: 3.7.5.3 - AS-Path Prepending
short-title: AS-Path Prepending
category: 3.7.5 BGP Bestpath Selection
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.5.3.html
folder: bgp
---
The MULTI_EXIT_DISC attribute, which we will review shortly, can influence the incoming traffic from neighbor- ing autonomous systems, but it cannot influence the routing decisions of more remote autonomous systems. Prepending the AS\_PATH is a method by which we can make routes less preferable, even to autonomous systems that are not our directly connected neighbors._ 
The configuration is done by use of a route-map and the **set as-path prepend** clause.
```
`R1(config)# ip prefix-list ROUTES seq 5 permit 10.20.0.0/16
R1(config)# route-map PAD-AS permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address prefix-list ROUTES
R1(config-route-map)# set as-path prepend 64512 64512
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.100.17.2 remote-as 64514
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.100.17.2 route-map PAD-AS out
R1(config-router)# exit
```
`You always use the AS of the router that is doing the prepending as seen above. IOS has a configuration option, **bgp enforce-first-as**, that allows a network operator to create a rule whereby a route sent from a neighboring AS is not accepted unless the last ASN on the AS\_PATH is that neighbor’s ASN. For a neighbor using an ASN other than his own to prepend his advertised routes, this option causes those routes to be rejected. In newer IOS versions, **bgp enforce-first-as** is the default.

 It is important to note, however, that the public Internet is seldom more than six or eight AS hops “deep”—that is, a path from any point on the Internet to any other point on the Internet is unlikely to traverse more than six or eight separate autonomous systems. Therefore, prepending a route with more than a few instances of your ASN is merely a waste of resources and an irritation to other operators on the Internet.

If for some reason you do not want AS\_PATH to be included in the decision process, issue the command **bgp best path as-path ignore**. This is a hidden command that is not shown when using IOS help.
