---
name: 3.7.7.6
title: 3.7.7.6 - Deleting
short-title: Deleting
category: 3.7.7 BGP Communities
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.7.6.html
folder: bgp
---
In complicated community signaling environments, it may become necessary to remove a subset of communities associated with a prefix. For example, when passing a transit prefix to another AS, you may want to remove community values attached by downstream AS, yet retain community values attached by the AS of origin. Or you may want to delete the no-export community for a prefix, while leaving other communities intact.
Deleting a subset of community list is possible using a special IOS feature. The configuration is as follows. First, you create a community access-list (standard or expanded). This list specifies the communities to be removed. It is flexible to use expanded access-lists to be able to remove community ranges—for example, by matching “200:[0-9]+\_” you will erase any community set in AS 200. Then, you create a route-map to delete the communities using the following syntax: **set community-list NAME\|NUMBER\| delete**￼ ￼
￼ You may set your own communities while  deleting the others.
In our scenario, R7 is configured to remove any communities matching the pattern “200:[0-9]+” and attach its own community “300:200”. This is performed using a single route-map entry.
```
R2:
route-map SET_COMMUNITY 10
 no set community
 set community 200:254 254:200 200:123
!
router bgp 200
 neighbor 155.1.23.3 send-community
 neighbor 155.1.0.5 send-community
 neighbor 192.10.1.254 route-map SET_COMMUNITY in
!
ip bgp-community new-format
R3:
router bgp 200
 neighbor 155.1.37.7 send-community
!
ip bgp-community new-format
R6:
ip bgp-community new-format
R7:
ip community-list expanded AS200 permit 200:[0-9]+_ !
route-map RESET_COMMUNITY permit 10
 set community 300:200 additive
 set community-list AS200 delete
!
router bgp 300
 neighbor 155.1.67.6 send-community
 neighbor 155.1.37.3 route-map RESET_COMMUNITY in
!
ip bgp-community new-format
```
It is also possible to delete all communities using the **set community none** statement in a route map.

One another note about adding communities. You can use the keyword **additive** when using the **set community** statement to add a community to an existing list.
