---
name: 3.7.2.3
title: 3.7.2.3 - Confederations
short-title: Confederations
category: 3.7.2 iBGP Scaling
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.2.3.html
folder: bgp
---
A confederation is an AS that has been subdivided into a group of sub-autonomous systems, known as *member autonomous systems*. The BGP speakers within the confederation speak IBGP to peers in the same member AS, and a special version of EBGP called confederation EBGP to peers in other member autonomous systems. The confederation is assigned a confederation ID, which is represented to peers outside of the confederation as the AS number of the entire confederation. External peers do not see the internal structure of the confederation; rather, they see a single autonomous system.

{% include image.html file="confederation.png" %}

The section “AS\_SET,” in Chapter 3, described two types of AS\_PATH attributes: AS\_SEQUENCE and AS\_SET. Confederations add two more types to the AS\_PATH:
- AS\_CONFED\_SEQUENCE: This is an ordered list of AS numbers along a path to a destination. It is used in exactly the same way as the AS\_SEQUENCE, except that the AS numbers in the list belong to autonomous systems within the local confederation.
- AS\_CONFED\_SET: This is an unordered list of AS numbers along a path to a destination. It is used in exactly the same way as the AS\_SET, except that the AS numbers in the list belong to autonomous systems within the local confederation.

Because the AS\_PATH attribute is used in Updates between the member autonomous systems, loop avoidance is preserved. From the perspective of a BGP router within a member AS, all peers in other member autonomous systems are external neighbors.

When an Update is sent to a peer external to the confederation, the AS\_CONFED\_ SEQUENCE and AS\_CONFED\_SET information is stripped from the AS\_PATH attribute, and the confederation ID is prepended to the AS\_PATH. Because of this, external peers see the confederation as a single AS rather than as a collection of autonomous systems. It is common practice to use AS numbers from the reserved range 64512 to 65535 to number the member autonomous systems within a confederation.

All routers within a confederation must support the confederation functionality. This is because all routers must recognize the AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE and AS_CONFED_ SET types in the AS_PATH attribute. However, because these AS_PATH types are removed from routes advertised out of the confederation, routers in other autonomous systems do not have to support confederations.

Here is a configuration for a a confederation router.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 65534
R1(config-router)# bgp confederation identifier 1200
R1(config-router)# bgp confederation peers 65533 65535
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The **bgp confederation peers** command tells the BGP process that the eBGP run to AS 65553 and 65535 should be confederation eBGP.

A confederation may run BGP only, a common IGP throughout the entire confederation, or different IGPs within each member AS.

Confederation EBGP is something of a hybrid between normal BGP and IBGP. Specifically, within a confederation, the following applies:
- The NEXT_HOP attribute of routes external to the confederation is preserved throughout the confederation._
- MULTI_EXIT_DISC attributes of routes advertised into a confederation are pre- served throughout the confederation.
- LOCAL_PREF attributes of routes are preserved throughout the entire confederation, not just within the member AS in which they are assigned._
- The AS numbers of the member autonomous systems are added to the AS_PATH within the confederation but are not advertised outside of the confederation. By default, the member AS numbers are listed in the AS_PATH as AS_PATH attribute type 4, AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE. If the **aggregate-address** command is used within the confederation, the **as-set** keyword causes member AS numbers behind the aggregation point to be listed as AS_PATH attribute type 3, AS_CONFED_SET.
- The confederation AS numbers in an AS_PATH are used for loop avoidance but are not considered when choosing a shortest AS_PATH within the confederation.

A common design technique with confederations borrows from OSPF - create a backbone area through which all routes must pass. This effectively eliminates inter-AS loops.
