---
name: 3.7.8.6
title: 3.7.8.6 - Outbound Route Filtering
short-title: Outbound Route Filtering
category: 3.7.8 Filtering
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.8.6.html
folder: bgp
---
ORF, or outbound route filtering, is the technique that allows a BGP peer to “push” a filter to the remote neighbor. The neighbor then applies the prefix filter to the outbound updates sent to the peer that pushed the filter. This feature is particularly helpful in situations where BGP peers exchange large amounts of BGP information. Applying filtering outbound on the remote peer instead of inbound on the local peer significantly decreases the amount of routing information sent across the link. There are two types of ORF filters defined in IETF’s draft: prefix-list based and community based. Cisco IOS supports only the prefix-list ORFs.

In BGP terms, ORF is a special capability negotiated during the establishment of a BGP session. A peer may advertise its willingness to send, receive, or both send and receive the ORFs. You must enable this capability on peering routers before configuring ORFs. The command to enable the feature in the IOS routers is **neighbor \<IP\> capability orf prefix-list [send|receive|both]**. You must reset the BGP session to negotiate the new capabilities.

To configure and push an ORF, you must define a prefix list and apply it to the peer’s session using the command **neighbor \<IP\> prefix-list \<NAME\> in**. The list must be inbound, because this is the natural direction for ORF. If the session has ORF send capability enabled, the list will be pushed to the remote peer and installed as an outbound filter after you do a session refresh using the **clear ip bgp \<IP\> soft in prefix-filter** command. This command pushes the prefix list and requires route refresh (re-advertisement) from the peer. Here is a configuration example between two peers.
```
R4(config)# ip prefix-list ORF deny 112.0.0.0/8
R4(config)# ip prefix-list ORF permit 0.0.0.0/0 le 32
R4(config)# router bgp 100
R4(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.45.5 capability orf prefix-list both
R4(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.45.5 prefix-list ORF in
```
```
R5(config)# router bgp 200
R5(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.45.4 capability orf prefix-list both
```
