---
name: 3.7.9.1
title: 3.7.9.1 - Local AS
short-title: Local AS
category: 3.7.9 AS-Path Manipulation
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.9.1.html
folder: bgp
---
The Hide Local Autonomous System feature could be useful when migrating an autonomous system to a different AS number. When the AS has multiple eBGP peering links, it may become time consuming to negotiate the AS number change with all peering partners.

The **local-as \<OldAS\>** command instructs the local router to advertise the \<OldAS\> number in BGP OPEN messages instead of the AS number specified with the **router bgp \<NewAS\>** command. In addition, all BGP prefixes advertised to this eBGP peer would have the AS numbers \<OldAS\> \<NewAS\> prepended in front of every BGP update’s AS_PATH attribute. Thus, the external system may continue with the local system using the old AS number. Also, the external system will see the updates coming from the \<OldAS\> looking like they first transited \<NewAS\>. This is necessary to avoid BGP routing loops.

If you specify the **no-prepend** keyword, any routes received from the eBGP peer will not have \<OldAS\> prepended upon reception. By default, the AS number specified with the **local-as** command (\<OldAS\>) is prepended to all updates received, to avoid potential routing loops. However, this may cause problems with partial transitions, when part of your AS is using the new AS number, and another part is still using the old AS number. The routers using the old number will reject such updates because the same AS number is present in AS_PATH.

This is configured on a per neighbor basis for complete flexibility.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.0.5 local-as 64513 no-prepend
R1(config-router)# exit
```
