---
name: 3.7.10.3
title: 3.7.10.3 - BGP Prefix Independent Convergence
short-title: BGP Prefix Independent Convergence
category: 3.7.10 BGP Convergence Optimization
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.10.3.html
folder: bgp
---
When failures are detected, the BGP process responds in the following manner:
- The failed routes are withdrawn from the BGP table, the RIB, and FIB.
- Update message are sent to the neighbors to withdraw the failed routes.
- The best path algorithm is run to choose new best paths.
- The new best paths are installed in the BGP table, RIB, and FIB.
- The new best paths are announced via Update messages to the BGP neighbors.

Therefore, BGP convergence primarily depends on the speed by which the router runs the best-path algorithm to find an alternative path to the destination. This, in turn, depends on the size of the BGP table, or in other words, the number of prefixes in the table.

Because the bottleneck in the convergence of BGP is in the number of prefixes in the BGP table, to speed up convergence, this dependency needs to be eliminated, and this is exactly what the BGP Prefix Independent Convergence (PIC) feature does.

This is how it works: In cases where more than one path to a prefix exists, when BGP runs the best path algorithm, instead of finding the best path only, it finds the best path and the second-best path and installs both in the BGP, RIB, and CEF tables. When a failure in the primary path is detected, the backup/alternative path immediately replaces the primary path in all three tables without the need to do any BGP table walks or running the best-path algorithm first. This is conceptually similar to the EIGRP Feasible Successor function. The dependency on the size of the BGP table is eliminated, and BGP convergence is dramatically enhanced. As you can see, BGP PIC is a purely data plane feature that operates at the RIB and CEF level.

The BGP PIC feature is enabled using the command **bgp additional-paths** install under the BGP address-family configuration mode.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 unicast
R1(config-router-af)# bgp additional-paths install
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```
An important configuration statement related to BGP PIC is **no bgp recursion host** that is also configured under the bgp address-family section. This statement did not show up in the configuration in Example 5-66 because it’s enabled by default. Disabling CEF recursion is not a prerequisite for the BGP PIC feature to work and it can be enabled by issuing the command **bgp recursion host** under the BGP address-family section. However, it is recommended to disable recursion to not slow down the BGP PIC functionality.
