---
name: 3.7.5.1
title: 3.7.5.1 - Weight
short-title: Weight
category: 3.7.5 BGP Bestpath Selection
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.5.1.html
folder: bgp
---
Weight is a Cisco-specific BGP path attribute that applies only to routes within an individual router. It is not communicated to other routers - weights are not included in the BGP updates or in any other way communicated to the BGP speaker’s peers.. The weight is a number between 0 and 65,535 that can be assigned to a route; the higher the weight, the more preferable the route. When choosing a best path, the BGP decision process considers weight above all other route characteristics except specificity. By default, all routes learned from a peer have a weight of 0, and all routes generated by the local router have a weight of 32,768. This ensures that all locally originated prefixes (by **network**, **aggregate-address** or **redistribute**) are always preferred over the same prefixes learned from the peers.

Weights can be set for individual routes, or for routes learned from a specific neighbor.

Weights are useful when you want one BGP router in an AS to treat some prefixes differently than the way other routers in the AS treat the same prefixes. The attribute is commonly used in scenarios where the local router has multiple uplinks and you want to prefer one uplink over another.
It can be configured in two ways. If you want all prefixes learned from a particular peer to have a defined weight, use the **neighbor weight** command.  You can also use a route map with the **set weight** statement.
```
R1(config)# ip access-list WEIGHT_CHANGE permit 10.10.10.0
R1(config)# route-map SET-WEIGHT permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address WEIGHT_CHANGE
R1(config-route-map)# set weight 100
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# neighbor 204.12.1.254 route-map SET-WEIGHT in
R1(config-router)# exit
```
