---
name: 3.7.1.8
title: 3.7.1.8 - BGP Peer Groups and Peer Templates
short-title: Peer Groups and Peer Templates
category: 3.7.1 Establishing Peering
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.1.8.html
folder: bgp
---
### Peer Groups
Setting up peering between one or two neighbors does not take much configuration. But what if you are a service provider and have two or three hundred peers?

When the same configuration parameters and routing policies are applied to many BGP peers, a router’s BGP configuration can be greatly simplified by designating the peers as members of a single peer group. Most of the configuration options and routing policies that otherwise would be defined for each neighbor can instead be defined once, for the peer group. A peer group is relevant only to the router on which it is defined and is not communicated to the router’s peers. Following are three steps to creating a peer group:
1. Designate the peer group name.
2. Designate the routing policies and configuration options common to all members of the peer group.
3. Designate the neighbors that belong to the peer group.

Here is a sample configuration:
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor CLIENTS peer-group
R1(config-router)# neighbor CLIENTS ebgp-multihop 2
R1(config-router)# neighbor CLIENTS update-source loopback0
R1(config-router)# neighbor CLIENTS filter-list 2 in
R1(config-router)# neighbor CLIENTS filter-list 1 out
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.2 remote-as 200
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.2 peer-group CLIENTS
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.3 remote-as 300
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.3 peer-group CLIENTS
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.4 remote-as 400
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.4 peer-group CLIENTS
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.5 remote-as 500
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.1.255.5 peer-group CLIENTS
R1(config-router)# exit
```
`
If there is a conflict of configuration statements, the statements for a specific neigh- bor take precedence over the configuration statements of a peer group to which the neighbor belongs.

Details about the peer groups defined on a router can be displayed with the command **show ip bgp peer-groups**.

Reducing the number of configuration statements on routers with many BGP neighbors is only one of the benefits of peer groups. Another benefit is in the management of shared BGP session configurations. If a password or BGP timers must be changed, for example, it is much easier to change a statement once under a peer group than to change it under every neighbor using the same statement.

Another benefit of peer groups, and the reason they were originally created, applies to the scaling of the BGP process rather than the BGP configuration. When an outgoing policy is applied to a peer group, the members of the peer group are added to an update group. Updates are then generated for the group, rather than individual neighbors. Suppose a router has 150,000 prefixes to advertise as NLRI and 100 neighbors. If the updates are generated separately for each neighbor, 15,000,000 NLRI must be created as the router scans its routing table separately for each neighbor; but if the 100 neighbors are members of the same update group, only 100,000 NLRI are generated as the router scans its routing table once for the group.

As of IOS 12.0(24)S, Cisco has introduced a mechanism called Dynamic Update Peer Groups, which automatically groups peers using the same outbound policies for the purpose of controlling the number of routing table scans as described in the previous paragraph. Under traditional peer groups, all members of the group had to share the same outbound policies; so if some peers needed slightly different outbound policies, they had to belong to different peer groups. Although still helping to reduce the con- figuration size, a large BGP configuration tended to contain many small peer groups. Dynamic update peer groups automatically group updates for peers sharing the same outbound policies, with no configuration required.

### Peer Templates
Peer templates were created specifically to simplify the configuration of BGP by group- ing configuration options that are shared by multiple peers. Introduced at the same time as dynamic update peer groups in IOS 12.0(24)S, you can think of these two features as working together to replace the older peer groups feature: dynamic update peer groups to improve and automate the performance advantages of grouped updates, and peer templates to improve the flexibility of grouping peer configurations.

One of the major improvements provided by peer templates is the concept of inheritance. Where members of a peer group had to all share the same group characteristics, a peer template could inherit characteristics from another template.

There are two types of peer templates:
- Session templates.
- Policy Templates

#### Session Templates
Session templates group statements configuring the BGP session. You start a session template with the statement **template peer-session**, giving the template a name of your choosing. You then add all the configuration statements you want to use in the template. When you have added all the statements you need in the session template, you end it with the statement **exit-peer-session**.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# template peer-session EXAMPLE
R1(config-router-stmp)# password CISCO
R1(config-router-stmp)# update-source loop0
R1(config-router-stmp)# remote-as 200
R1(config-router-stmp)# ebgp-multihop 3
R1(config-router-stmp)# exit
R1(config-router)# 
```
`You then either apply the template to peers with the neighbor inherit peer-session statement, or you allow the template to be directly inherited by other templates with the inherit peer-session statement.
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# template peer-session ebgp
R1(config-router-stmp)# inherit peer-session EXAMPLE
R1(config-router-stmp)# exit
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.255.1 inherit peer-session ebgp
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.255.3 inherit peer-session ebgp
R1(config-router)# exit
```
`The command **show ip bgp template peer-session** is useful for understanding the inter- action of your configured session templates. You can specify a template by name or leave the name unspecified to see all session templates. 

There can be a total of 7 inheritances of session templates.

#### Policy Templates
Policy templates, as you might expect, are used to group policy configurations applied to multiple neighbors. You start a policy template with the statement template peer- policy, giving the template a name of your choosing. You then add all the configuration statements you want to use in the template.

Unlike the linear inheritance of session templates, a policy template can either directly or indirectly inherit from up to seven other peer templates; like session templates, only one policy template can be applied to a neighbor. 
```
`R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# template peer-policy EBGP
R1(config-router-ptmp)# inherit peer-policy ALL-PEERS
R1(config-router-ptmp)# inherit peer-policy PREMIUM-PEERS
R1(config-router-ptmp)# exit
R1(config-router)# 
```
`The above shows the non-linear inheritance capabilities of policy templates.

The **show ip bgp template peer-policy** command, like its session-policy counterpart, displays information for analyzing and troubleshooting policy templates .