---
name: 3.7.10.6
title: 3.7.10.6 - BGP Add-Path
short-title: BGP Add-Path
category: 3.7.10 BGP Convergence Optimization
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.10.6.html
folder: bgp
---
When we enable the BGP PIC feature, the router will store a secondary route for a prefix, much like an EIGRP Feasible Successor. But that backup route is only local to the router - it is not advertised to any of its peers, unless it becomes the active route for the prefix.

To overcome the limitation of announcing only the best path as well as the function of implicit withdrawal, and hence allow a BGP speaker to announce more than just its best path to a prefix, and to allow a receiver to retain two or more different paths for the same destination prefix received over the same session, a new BGP capability called the ADD-PATH capability was introduced that has the Capability number 69. This capability allows a BGP speaker to indicate to its peer in the OPEN message whether it can send and receive more than one path per destination prefix.

The ADD-PATH capability can be configured either per address-family using the statement **bgp additional-paths {send[receive]|receive}** or per neighbor (under the bgp address-family section) using the statement **neighbor {ip-address} additional-paths {send[receive]|receive}**, with the neighbor-level command having higher precedence over the address-family statement. The send and receive arguments indicate whether the BGP speaker can send only, receive only, or send and receive additional paths.

After the capability is configured, defining which routes qualify as “candidate” routes to be advertised is configured using any of these three statements:
- **bgp additional-paths select group-best**
- **bgp additional-paths select best {number}**
- **bgp additional-paths select all**

The first option selects only one best path per AS, so that the list of candidate routes is a list of each ASs best path.

The second option simply selects the number of best paths that will be candidate paths for announcements. The number argument can be 2 or 3 only.

The third command includes all valid paths to a prefix into the list of candidate paths.

After the list of candidate paths is configured, the command **neighbor {ip-address} advertise additional-paths [best number][group-best][all]** advertises to a specific neighbor a subset of the candidate routes defined in the preceding step.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.0.2 remote-as 200
R1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.0.2 advertise additional-paths best 2
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 unicast
R1(config-router-af)# bgp additional-paths select best 2
R1(config-router-af)# bgp additional-paths send
R1(config-router-af)# bgp additional-paths install
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```
```
R2(config)# router bgp 200
R2(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.0.1 remote-as 100
R2(config-router)# address-family ipv4 unicast
R2(config-router-af)# bgp additional-paths receive
R2(config-router-af)# bgp addition-paths install
```
In this example, R2 is set to receive additional paths from R1.
