---
name: 3.7.12.1
title: 3.7.12.1 - IPv6 BGP
short-title: IPv6 BGP
category: 3.7.12 IPv6 BGP
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.12.1.html
folder: bgp
---
Multi-protocol extensions for BGP (M-BGP) adds support for the IPv6 address family, which essentially means that IPv6 prefixes and attributes can be exchanged over a normal TCP-based BGP peering. We configure IPv6 peers under the **address-family ipv6 unicast** configuration mode inside of BGP, and then they must be “activated,” or enabled. Technically, this is the same process used in IPv4 peering, but the normal global BGP process automatically refers to the **address-family ipv4 unicast**, and the command **bgp default ipv4-unicast** is enabled by default, which means that all unicast IPv4 peers are automatically “activated.”

The configuration of all IPv6-related options takes place under the address-family, such as the network statement, or applying attributes onto neighbors like route-maps, prefix-lists, filter-lists, and so on. Remember that all other BGP operations stay the same, such as advertisement rules, route reflection, confederation, best path selection, and so on. The only thing that has changed is the format of the prefix and next-hop advertised inside of the BGP update messages. Note that for EBGP peerings, the next-hop values recurse to link-local addresses in the routing table, so when peering over multi-point NBMA, we must map the link-local IPv6 addresses, as with the other IPv6 protocols we have discussed. Prefix summarization uses the same command used in IPv4 and the same prefix length calculations.

```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv6 unicast
R1(config-router-af)# neighbor 2001:155:1:1234::5 remote-as 500
R1(config-router-af)# neighbor 2001:155:1:1234::5 activate
R1(config-router-af)# network 2003:1:1:1::/64
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```

The IOS version of BGP is always multiprotocol, but we only call it that when we actually configure it for additional address family support. RFC 4760 extends BGP for multiprotocol support by defining two new attributes:
- Multiprotocol Reachable NLRI
- Multiprotocol Unreachable NLRI

Both attributes are optional nontransitive. The MP_REACH_NLRI is carried in BGP Update messages to advertise reachable routes. The attribute identifies the protocol advertised and the address type within the protocol, the next hop of the route, and the NLRI itself.

{% include image.html file="mbgp-nlri.png" %}

As you can see above, the NLRI contains the following fields:
- **Address Family Identifier (AFI)**: protocol to which the NLRI belongs, IPv4 (1), Ipv6 (2), etc
- **Subsequent Address Family Identifier (SAFI)**: this field specifies a functional address type under the major protocol such as unicast (1), multicast (2), unicast+multicast (3), MPLS (128)
- **Next Hop Address Length**: obviously 4 bytes for IPv4 and 16 bytes for IPv6
- **Next Hop Address**: next hop of the advertised NLRI
- **Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI)**: prefix and prefix length being advertised

The MP_UNREACH_NLRI format is the same except there is no need to provide information about the next hop address if the route is being withdrawn.
