---
name: 3.7.2.2
title: 3.7.2.2 - Route Reflector Clusters
short-title: Route Reflector Clusters
category: 3.7.2 iBGP Scaling
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.2.2.html
folder: bgp
---
A route reflector and its clients, or possibly multiple route reflectors sharing the same clients, is called a route reflection cluster. A client router in a route reflection cluster can peer with external neighbors, but the only internal neighbor it can peer with is a route reflector in its cluster or other clients in the cluster. However, the RR can peer with both internal and external neighbors outside of the cluster and reflect their routes to its clients.

{% include image.html file="route-reflector.png" %}

We saw earlier that a CLUSTER\_LIST is used to ensure that loops do not occur between route reflector clusters. A 4-octet cluster ID identifies the cluster and the RR adds this number to the CLUSTER\_LIST. If the RR receives an update with its own cluster ID in the CLUSTER\_LIST, it knows a loop has occurred and it ignores the route. This function proves important when the path passes through multiple route reflection clusters. By default, the RR enters its own BGP RID in the CLUSTER\_LIST. To specify a cluster ID other than the RR’s RID, you use the **bgp cluster-id** command. You can specify a cluster ID as a number between 1 and 4294967295 or in dotted decimal format. If you configure more than one route reflector in a cluster, you must use the bgp cluster-id command to ensure that all RRs are identifying themselves as members of the same cluster.

Connections made between clusters are down between the route reflectors, not between the clients, as an inter cluster loop could not be identified by a client. The RRs are peered via standard IBGP and obey all the IBGP rules. The only additional information passed between the RRs is the CLUSTER\_LIST attribute, to prevent loops. The route reflectors within an AS must be fully meshed with all other route reflectors in the AS and with all other AS-interior routers that do not belong to a cluster, as shown below.

{% include image.html file="rr-cluster.png" %}

The rule that clients must peer only to their RRs has two exceptions. First, a client can be a route reflector for another cluster. This allows “nesting” of route reflection clusters, or the creation of a hierarchy of clusters.

The second exception is when there is a full IBGP mesh among the clients. Fully meshing the clients, provides some increased robustness. When such a design is used, you should configure the route reflector with the command **no bgp client-to-client reflection**. Routes are then communicated between the fully meshed clients under normal IBGP rules, and the RR does not reflect routes from one client to another. It does, however, continue to reflect routes from clients to peers out- side of the cluster, and from peers outside of the cluster to clients.
