---
name: 3.7.5.10
title: 3.7.5.10 - DMZ Link Bandwidth
short-title: DMZ Link Bandwidth
category: 3.7.5 BGP Bestpath Selection
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.5.10.html
folder: bgp
---
The local BGP process of a router may implement equal-cost load balancing for paths that:
- have the same set of path attributes up to the MED (weight, Local Preference, Origin, MED)
- are of the same type (learned via iBGP or learned via eBGP)
- have the same IGP cost to reach their NEXT_HOP IP address

If the above conditions are met and **maximum-paths** is configured under the BGP process, BGP will install multiple equal-cost routes into the local RIB and use them for load-balancing. BGP implements the unique unequal-cost load balancing feature.  This feature is called DMZ Link Bandwidth in IOS. The rationale behind this name is that load-balancing is based on the bandwidth of the links connecting the border BGP peers to their neighbors. Here is how it works for a single router with multiple eBGP peering links: 
1. You enable the feature on a border BGP router using the command **bgp dmzlink-bw** . With this command enabled, the BGP process will instruct the data plane to load- balance based on the bandwidth of the links used to connect to the external BGP peers. To select the links that are to be used for load-balancing, you configure the respective BGP peers using the command **neighbor \<IP\> dmzlink-bw** . The BGP process will consider the bandwidth on the links connecting to those peers when doing the unequal cost load-balancing. In Cisco terminology, those links are called the DMZ Links. The bandwidth is computed based on the **bandwidth** command configured on the respective interfaces, or based on the default administrative bandwidth.
2. You enable the classic BGP equal-cost load-balancing using the command **maximum- paths** under the local BGP process. Now, assuming that you received the same prefix from multiple peers and all paths satisfy the BGP load-balancing conditions defined above, the BGP process will insert them into RIB and assign load-balancing weights proportional to the interface bandwidth values (DMZ link bandwidth). 

Now what if you have multiple BGP border peers in your AS, each having just one uplink? Is it possible to implement an AS-wide load-balancing scheme based on the bandwidth of the upstream links? That is, it would be beneficial if every router learning multiple paths to the same prefix across iBGP links would load-balance toward them based on the bandwidth of the link where they were received. Cisco IOS allows for such implementation, using the following algorithm: 
1. When the DMZ Link bandwidth feature is enabled in the border BGP routers for the specific peers, the interface bandwidth value is copied into a new extended community attribute associated with the prefixes received from those eBGP peers. Thus, every prefix received on the eBGP peering link will carry the link's bandwidth as a special extended community attribute, if the link is enabled for the DMZ Link bandwidth feature. Remember that you need two commands in the border peers:   
	**bgp dmzlink-bw** and **neighbor \<IP\> dmzlink-bw** . 
2. All BGP speakers in the AS should be configured to exchange extended communities across the iBGP peering links. This allows all internal BGP speakers to learn the bandwidth of the external link used to reach the prefixes. Use the command   
**neighbor \<IP\> send-community extended** to accomplish this. 
3. Provided that an internal BGP speaker has both **bgp maximum-path ibgp** and **bgp dmzlink-bw** commands enabled and receives multiple paths to reach the same prefix, it performs load-balancing if the paths meet the BGP load-balancing conditions. 
4. If all paths received carry the DMZ Link bandwidth extended community, the BGP process will perform unequal cost load-balancing proportional to the extended community attribute values.   
