---
name: 3.7.3.1
title: 3.7.3.1 - Next Hop Self
short-title: Next Hop Self
category: 3.7.3 BGP Next Hop Processing
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.3.1.html
folder: bgp
---
The **neighbor next-hop-self** command causes the router to change the BGP NEXT_HOP attribute to its own loopback address in all eBGP routes advertised to the specified iBGP neighbor. It is useful when the IGP knows how to get to the border router but does not know how to get to an external facing address.

With IGPs there is rarely a need for such a feature as almost all routes are learned from a connected neighbor. But with iBGP, a BGP speaker may learn routes from an internal peer that is multiple hops away. While you can be sure that the far end peer has a path to the advertising peer (or else the BGP session would not be up), there is no guarantee that the peer has reachability to the original next-hop address of the route advertisement.

To ensure that this disconnect does not adversely affect the actual forwarding of traffic, the BGP process internally performs the route recursion process for all prefixes toward performing Bestpath selection. If route recursion is not successful (such as if the final outgoing interface cannot be found), the prefix cannot be considered for Bestpath selection. This implies that the prefix cannot be installed in the IP routing table, nor can it be advertised to any other BGP peers.

The Next_Hop attribute identifies the next-hop IP address to be used as the BGP next hop to the destination. The router makes a recursive lookup to find the BGP next hop in the routing table. In external BGP (eBGP), the next hop is the IP address of the peer that sent the update. Internal BGP (iBGP) sets the next-hop address to the IP address of the peer that advertised the prefix for routes that originate internally. When any routes to iBGP that are learned from eBGP are advertised, the Next_Hop attribute is unchanged.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.58.5 next-hop-self
R1(config-router)# end
```

So to summarize, the default next hop behavior with BGP goes by these rules:
- For iBGP, with routes generated by the **network** command or via redistribution, the next hop is set to the original next-hop value of the IGP route
	- if the IGP next-hop does not exist, then the BGP next-hop is set to the BGP speaker itself. you will see the next-hop on teh BGP speaker's RIB as 0.0.0.0 but in Update messages it will be set to the BGP speaker's peering address
- For iBGP if the prefix is injected by the **aggregate-address** command, the prefix's BGP next-hop is the BGP speaker doing the aggregation
- For eBGP, the next-hop is automatically set to the IP address of the eBGP peer that is sending the prefix
	- the exception is if the advertising speaker learned the route from one of its multiaccess peers - then the eBGP advertiser will set the next-hop to the originator on the same multiaccess network, a feature known as 3rd-party next-hop
- Finally, the next-hop can be set by using a route-map or the **next-hop-self** command, as we saw in this article.