---
name: 3.7.8.5
title: 3.7.8.5 - BGP Regular Expressions
short-title: BGP Regular Expressions
category: 3.7.8 Filtering
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.8.5.html
folder: bgp
---
BGP Regular Expressions are used when filtering is done on the AS\_PATH attribute. Remember that AS_PATH can be constructed of the following elements: AS_SET (unordered list of AS numbers), AS_SEQUENCE (ordered list of AS numbers), AS_CONFED_SET, and AS_CONFED_SEQUENCE, which are the same elements but consist of the confederation AS numbers. For the purpose of matching, the AS_PATH attribute is viewed as a string starting with the adjacent AS number on the leftmost position, and the originating AS number in the rightmost position. When matching the AS_SET attribute, enclose the AS numbers in curly brackets and separate them with commas; for example, {100,200,300}. When matching a confederation path, enclose the AS numbers in parentheses, using backslashes to escape the special meaning of the character: “\(100\)”.

You must memorize the following regular expression meta-characters or modifiers:
- . - any character
- ? - repeat the previous character one or zero times
- \* - repeat the previous character zero or many times
- \+ - repeat the previous character one or more times
- ^ - match the beginning of a string
- $ - match the end of a string
- [] - range or elements
- \_ - match the space separating AS numbers or the end of the AS\_PATH list

Other important regexp features include grouping and back-referencing. You can use parentheses to group AS numbers, such as (123 124 1+), and every group is assigned a number starting from left to right. For example, in the string “1 2 (3 4) 5 6 (7 8)”, the first group is assigned the number 1 and the second group number 2. You can later “recall” the grouping by using the commands \1, \2, and so on for the group numbers. For example, the string “(1 2) 3 \1” would match “1 2 3 1 2”. You may use the pipe character “\|” in addition to the grouping characters for the concept of alternation. For example, (1 2)\|(5 6) would match “1 2” or “5 6”.  Here are some examples:

- “$” - an empty AS\_PATH attribute
- “^254\_” - prefixes received from the directly adjacent AS 254
- “_254_” - any prefix transiting AS 254
- “\_254$ - prefixes originated in AS 254. Matches the rightmost position
- “^[0-9\+]\_254” - routes from AS 254 when it’s just one hop away
- “^254\_([0-9\+])” - prefixes from the clients of the directly connected AS 254
- “^(254\_)+ ([0-9\+])” - prefixes from the clients of the directly connected AS 254, taking into account that AS 254 might be prepending
- “^254\_ ([0-9\+])+” - prefixes from the clients of the adjacent AS 254, accounting for the fact that the clients may do AS_PATH prepending_
- “^\\(65100\\) - prefixes learned from the confederation peer 65100 - the slash is a regex slash, not a Kramdown slash

You configure BGP regular expressions using IP AS-PATH access-lists:
```
R1(config)# ip as-path access-list 1 permit ^_254_
```
You can then apply it to a neighbor by using a filter-list as such:
```
R1(config)# router bgp 200
R1(config-router)# neighbor 155.1.10.18 filter-list 1 in
```
While this may work the normal approach is to match the AS\_PATH access-list under a route-map and apply it to the neighbor.

It is a good time to point out that features are applied in the following order:
**Inbound**
1. route-map
2. filter-list
3. prefix-list OR distribute-list
**Outbound**
1. prefix-list OR distribute-list
2. filter-list
3. route-map

Remember that you may test regular expressions on the BGP table by using the commands **show ip bgp regexp** and **show ip bgp quote-regexp** . The latter command allows use of the “\|” (pipe) character to additionally filter the output.
