---
name: 3.7.1.13
title: 3.7.1.13 - Dynamic BGP Peering
short-title: Dynamic BGP Peering
category: 3.7.1 Establishing Peerings
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.1.13.html
folder: bgp
---
BGP dynamic neighbor support allows BGP peering to a group of remote neighbors that are defined by a range of IP addresses. Each range can be configured as a subnet IP address. BGP dynamic neighbors are configured using a range of IP addresses and BGP peer groups.

After a subnet range is configured for a BGP peer group and a TCP session is initiated by another router for an IP address in the subnet range, a new BGP neighbor is dynamically created as a member of that group. After the initial configuration of subnet ranges and activation of the peer group (referred to as a listen range group ), dynamic BGP neighbor creation does not require any further CLI configuration on the initial router. Other routers can establish a BGP session with the initial router, but the initial router need not establish a BGP session to other routers if the IP address of the remote peer used for the BGP session is not within the configured range.

A dynamic BGP neighbor will inherit any configuration for the peer group. In larger BGP networks, implementing BGP dynamic neighbors can reduce the amount and complexity of CLI configuration and save CPU and memory usage. Only IPv4 peering is supported.

Here is a configuration based on a subnet range.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 64512
R1(config-router)# bgp log-neighbor-changes
R1(config-router)# neighbor PEER_GROUP peer-group
R1(config-router)# bgp listen limit 200
R1(config-router)# bgp listen range 192.168.0.0/16 peer-group PEER_GROUP
R1(config-router)# neighbor PEER_GROUP ebgp-multihop 4
R1(config-router)# neighbor PEER_GROUP remote-as 65534 alternate-as 65535
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 unicast
R1(config-router-af)# neighbor PEER_GROUP activate
R1(config-router-af)#exit
R1(config-router)#
```
The **listen limit** defines the maximum  number of dynamic sessions while **listen range** defines the subnet that the peers must come from. The **remote-as** defines the remote AS for the dynamic connections. The **alternate-as** only applies to eBGP sessions and has a limit of 5.

After configuring the dynamic peering, the BGP process passively listens to the configured address range for incoming sessions.
