---
name: 3.7.5.0.1
title: 3.7.5.0.1 - BGP Bestpath
short-title: BGP Bestpath
category: 3.7.5 BGP Bestpath Selection
collection: bgp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: bgp_sidebar
permalink: 3.7.5.0.1.html
folder: bgp
---
BGP Bestpath selection is the core of the BGP routing process. This process replaces the shortest-path selection procedure found in traditional IGPs. The reason to use such a complicated procedure instead of the shortest path is that BGP prefixes cannot have a classic (additive) metric associated with them, as BGP in most cases is a multi-hop peering. The purpose of the BGP bestpath procedure is to select optimal paths based on administrative preferences while maintaining the following properties:
- routing loop detection
- deterministic path selection
- routing table stability
- information flooding minimization

Before we start with the best-path process description, recall that every BGP prefix has a set of attributes associated with it. The procedure uses those attributes when looking for optimal/best paths. Some of the attributes have more influence on the result than others, as we’ll see later. Before the procedure runs, the bestpath process excludes some prefixes based on the following criteria: 
- No valid next-hop
- BGP Synchronization enabled
- AS_Path Loop

All eligible paths are then sorted, and prefixes for the same destination (subnet/mask) are grouped together (the actual implementation may differ, though, as a result of various optimizations). For every group, BGP must elect the best path. Here is a short outline of the steps performed by the selection process. Every step is tried if the previous one cannot reveal the best path:
1. Ignore invalid paths
2. Prefer path with the highest locally assigned weight value.
3. Prefer the path with the highest Local Preference attribute value.
4. Prefer locally originated prefixes (originated via the network, aggregate-address, or redistribution commands).
5. Prefer the the path with the shortest AS_PATH attribute.
6. Prefer the path with the lowest ORIGIN Type where IGP \< EGP \< Incomplete.
7. Prefer the path with the lowest MED attribute value.
8. Prefer external BGP paths over internal BGP paths.
9. Prefer the path with the smallest IGP metric to reach the NEXT_HOP IP address
10. Prefer the path originated from the router with the lowest BGP Router-ID

In summarizing the path attributes of an advertised route, you can say that each attribute falls into one of four categories:
- Well-known mandatory
- Well-known discretionary
- Optional transitive
- Optional nontransitive

Here is a great summary table listing the attribute, which of the 4 classes it falls under, and its application:

| **Attribute** | **Class** | **Application** |
| ORIGIN | Well-known mandatory | Policy |
| AS_PATH | Well-known mandatory | Policy, Loop Detection |
| NEXT_HOP | Well-known mandatory | Policy |
| LOCAL_PREF | Well-known discretionary | Policy |
| ATOMIC_AGGREGATE | Well-known discretionary | Address aggregation|
| AGGREGATOR | Optional transitive | Address aggregation |
| COMMUNITIES | Optional transitive | Scaling |
| EXTENDED COMMUNITY | Optional transitive | Scaling |
| MED | Optional nontransitive | Policy |
| ORIGINATOR_ID | Optional nontransitive | Scaling, loop detection, policy |
| CLUSTER_LIST | Optional nontransitive | Scaling, loop detection, policy |
| AS4_PATH | Optional transitive | Sacling, policy |
| AS4_AGGREGATOR | Optional transitive | Scaling, address aggregation |
| Multiprotocol Reachable NLRI | optional nontransitive | Multiprotocol BGP |
| Multiprotocol Uneachable NLRI | optional nontransitive | Multiprotocol BGP |
