---
name: 5.2.6.1
title: 5.2.6.1 - Bootstrap Router
short-title: Bootstrap Router
category: 5.2 IPv4 Multicast Routing
collection: multicast
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: multicast\_sidebar
permalink: 5.2.6.1.html
folder: multicast
---
The Bootstrap Protocol, a standards based protocol defined by RFC 5059, is the replacement for the Cisco proprietary Auto-RP. As you should remember, Auto-RP required PIM Dense Mode operation in order to propogate Rendezvous Point location information as well as RP mapping information. This could be considered as a design flaw as it requires you to run a multicast protocol that most networks do not run today. The Bootstrap Protocol, rather than spreading its RP information via PIM-DM multicast, shares the RP/Group mappings via PIM messages on a hop-by-hop basis. The flooding procedure utilizes reverse path forwarding: when a router receives a BSR message, it applies RPF check, based on the source IP address in the packet. If the RPF check succeeds, the message is flooded out of all PIM-enabled interfaces until all routers in the domain learn the information.

Central to the Bootstrap Protocol is the Bootstrap ROuter, or BSR. The BSR listens and accumulates candidate RP announcements, performing a role similar to the Auto-RP Mapping Agent. Unlike the Auto-RP MA, the BSR does not elect the best RP for every group range it learns about, but instead builds a set of candidate RPs. The BSR then shares this information with other PIM routers via PIM messages.

PIM BSR Operates in two phases.
1. BSR Discovery. Every router configured as BSR floods bootstrap messages and listens to other BSR candidates. The BSR that hears another BSR with a higher priority gives up its role of the BSR. Eventually there is only one BSR, and every router in the domain, including the candidate RPs learn about it.
2. RP Discovery. Every RP *unicasts* its own address and the configured group ranges to the BSR. Eventually, BSR learns of every RP and continuously keeps flooding the new information through the domain, every 60 seconds by default.

The command to set up a candidate RP in IOS is **ip pim rp-candidate \< PIM-Enabled-Interface \> \[group-list\] \[interval\] \[priority \< 0-255 \>\]**.

If you omit all optional arguments, the router will start advertising itself as the RP for all groups. You may specify the list of groups using the group-list argument. All entries in this list are “positive”, if you compare them to Auto-RP functionality. You cannot use “negative” groups, singnaling dense-mode forwarding. RP priority value is used only when the routers select the best RP for a given group, and lower values are preferred. The default RP priority is zero (which is against standard, which specifies 192) and is the highest possible value. You may rarely want to change the priority value for a candidate RP, possibly only in cases when you want to gracefully take the RP out of service.


The command to set up a BSR in Cisco IOS is **ip pim bsr-candidate \< Interface-Name \> \[hash-mask-length\] \[priority\]**.

The **priorty** field is used to elect a single BSR for the PIM domain. If a BSR hears a message with higgher priority (or if tied a higher IP address), it immediately stops its own BSR advertisements. By default, the priority of zero is advertised in all BSR messages and the IP address of the interface used to source the BSR messages is used as a tie-breaker – the higher IP is preferred. If there are multiple BSRs, they constantly listen to other BSR messages flooded through the domain and stop sending their own information if they detect a better BSR candidate. This is based on a timer time of 130 seconds. This election process ensures BSR uniqueness in the domain while maintaining redundancy in case if the primary BSR fails.

We will look at the **hash-mask-length** in our next post.