---
name: 5.2.6.2
title: 5.2.6.1 - Bootstrap Router - Multiple RP Candidates
short-title: Bootstrap Router - Multiple RP Candidates
category: 5.2 IPv4 Multicast Routing
collection: multicast
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: multicast\_sidebar
permalink: 5.2.6.2.html
folder: multicast
---
We saw previously that a BSR router shares a RP-Set with all PIM listeners. This is different than Auto-RP, where the Mapping Agent would select the RP-to-Group mapping and only share that with PIM listeners. With the Bootstrap method, it puts the burden on teh PIM router to select the RP to use for a particular group. There must be some method for all PIM routers to use in selecting these mappings or else the mappings would not be the same and load-balancing might not occur as intended.

So, ultimately the bootstrap messages containing Group to RP-set mappings are received by every multicast router in the domain and used to populate their RP caches. It’s up to the routers to select the best matching RP from the sets advertised by the BSR router. It is important that all routers select the same RP for the same group, otherwise the multicast sources might miss receivers. In order to make full use of Group to RP-set information routers might want to select different RPs for different groups. As mentioned previously, the load balancing procedure must yield the same result on all routers, to maintain synchronous mapping. Here is how load balancing decision procedure works.

1. Among the routers in the RP-Set received from the BSR, select those that have the numerically lowest priority values. By default all candidate RPs advertise priority of 0, so they are all eligible.
2. For every RP IP address, calculate the hash function value1 = Hash (GroupAddress AND Mask, RP1), value2 = Hash (GroupAddress AND Mask, RP2)... valueN = Hash (GroupAddress AND Mask, RPn). Chose the RP with the highest hash value. If tied, select the RP with the highest IP address.

Notice that the Group ID is anded with the BSR hash mask value. Thus only the first has-mask-length bits of the Group ID address are used to calculate the hash value. Using the “pseudo-random” selection procedure, the whole multicast address space is partitioned among different RPs. Every RP will get approximately 2^[32-hash-mask-length] groups assigned, provided that there is enough RPs to evenly distribute the load. Notice that the default mask length value is zero – i.e. the group IP address is ignored when computing the hash value and all groups map to the same RP. So you can control the load balancing by properly setting the BSR Hash mask. The hash-mask is an 8-bit value. The RP with the highest hash function value for a given group is selected as the RP for the group (tiebreaker is highest IP address).


