---
name: 9.2.1
title: 9.2.1 - HSRP
short-title: HSRP
category: 9.2 First Hop Redundancy Protocols
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.2.1.html
folder: network-services
---
#### HSRP
Interior Gateway Routing protocols such as EIGRP and OSPF have fast convergence times when network failures occur. The problem is that many hosts will not know of alternative gateways to communicate with should their default gateway fail. Think about it - most hosts establish a relationship with exactly one router - their default gateway. Should this router fail, they would have no means of connecting to the rest of the network, even if there is a router on the same segment that could route their traffic. The First Hop Redundancy protocols were built to address this gap in convergence.

Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP) is a Cisco proprietary FHRP. HSRP allows 2 or more HSRP-configured routers to use the MAC address and IP address of a virtual router. These virtual addresses represent the common target for hosts to send routed traffic toward. The virtual IP address is assigned while the virtual MAC address is typically chosen from a pool of available virtual MAC addresses that IOS maintains, with the default being 0000.0c07.acXX, where XX is the HSRP group number. The hosts are configured with the virtual IP address as their default gateway, and ARP resolves the virtual MAC address.

HSRP uses a priority scheme to determin which HSRP router is to be the default active router. The default priority is 100, and higher wins the election. HSRP works by the exchange of multicast messages that advertise priority among HSRP configured routers. When the active router fails to send a Hello message within a configurable period of time, the standby router with the highest priority becomes the active router. There are a total of 3 types of multicast messages in HSRP communication.
- **Hello**: by default these are sent every 3 seconds. They convey information about the router's priority and state.
- **Coup**: sent by the standby router when the standby router assumes the function of the active router
- **Resign**: sent by the active router when it is about to shut down or when a router with a higher priority sends a hello message.

There are 4 states for HSRP:
- **Active**: the router is performing packet switching functions
- **Standby**: the router is prepared to assume packet switching functions should the active router fail
- **Speaking & listening**: the router is sending and receiving Hellos
- **Listening**: the router is receiving Hello messages

Here is a sample configuration that would make R1 the active HSRP router and R2 the standby.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip address 10.0.0.1 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# standby 1 ip 10.0.0.254
R1(config-if)# standby 1 preempt
R1(config-if)# standby 1 priority 110
R1(config-if)# standby 1 authentication CISCO
R1(config-if)# standby 1 timers 5 15
R1(config-if)# end
```
Before going to R2, some explanation is due. The **standby preempt** allows the router to take over the active role from the current active router. The **standby preempt**, command allows the router to take over the role of a current active router. The authentication provided by HSRP is weak and unencrypted. Finally the **standby timers** command sets the hello and hold time. The default timers are 3 and 10 seconds. If you change the default all HSRP routers should be configured with the new timer value.

Now, on to the R2 or standby router configuration.
```
R2(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R2(config-if)# ip address 10.0.0.2 255.255.255.0
R2(config-if)# standby 1 ip 10.0.0.254
R2(config-if)# standby 1 authentication CISCO
R2(config-if)# standby 1 timers 5 15
R2(config-if)# end
```
Notice that R2 uses the same **standby** identifier as R1, meaning they are in the same HSRP group. It also uses the same timer values and authentication password.

The authentication by default uses plain text passwords. It can optionally be configured to use MD5. If MD5 is used then you can either use a one line key-string or define a separate key chain.
#### MHSRP
Multigroup HSRP allows a single router interface to belong to more than one Hot Stanby group.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip address 10.0.0.1 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# standby 1 ip 10.0.0.254
R1(config-if)# standby 1 preempt
R1(config-if)# standby 1 priority 110
R1(config-if)# standby 1 authentication CISCO
R1(config-if)# standby 1 timers 5 15
R1(config-if)# standby 2 ip 10.0.0.253
R1(config-if)# standby 2 authentication OCSIC
R1(config-if)# end
``
Now for R2's configuration. We will make R2 the active router for HSRP group 2 and backup for HSRP group 1.
```
R2(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R2(config-if)# ip address 10.0.0.2 255.255.255.0
R2(config-if)# standby 1 ip 10.0.0.254
R2(config-if)# standby 1 authentication CISCO
R2(config-if)# standby 1 timers 5 15
R2(config-if)# standby 2 ip 10.0.0.253
R2(config-if)# standby 2 preempt
R2(config-if)# standby 2 priority 110
R2(config-if)# standby 2 authentication OCSIC
R2(config-if)# end
```
#### Interface Tracking
You can optionally use Enhanced Object Tracking to adjust the Hot Standby priority of a router based on the state of a tracked inerface. The tracked interface does not have to be the interface that HSRP is configured on, so for example you could run HSRP on a LAN interface but track the availability of a WAN interface.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# standby 1 ip 10.0.0.254
R1(config-if)# standby track GigabitEthernet0/0
```

You are not limited to interface tracking. You can create an IP SLA, track that, and then use **standby track** to tie HSRP and the object tracking together. You can even track a tracking list.
```
R1(config)# ip sla 1
R1(config-ip-sla)# icmp-echo 8.8.8.8
R1(config-ip-sla-echo)# frequency 5
R1(config-ip-sla-echo)# timeout 2
R1(config-ip-sla-echo)# exit
R1(config-ip-sla)# exit
R1(config)# ip sla schedule 1 start-time now life forever
R1(config)# track 1 ip sla 1
R1(config-track)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# standby 1 ip 10.0.0.254
R1(config-if)# standby track 1 decrement 10
R1(config-if)# exit
```
The **decrement** option signifies how much the HSRP router priority is incremented or decremented when the tracked object changes its state.



