---
name: 9.2.3
title: 9.2.3 - GLBP
short-title: GLBP
category: 9.2 First Hop Redundancy Protocols
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.2.3.html
folder: network-services
---
Gateway Load-Balancing Protocol - the name describes it well. With HSRP, if you decided to implement load balancing it was a very manual process. You were required to implement different default gateways on each half of your hosts. GLBP offers a much more elegant solution for the first hop load balancing with redundancy problem.

Much like HSRP and VRRP, you configure GLBP by using the **glbp** command along with the group number and virtual IP address:
```
R1(config-if)# glbp 1 ip 10.0.0.1
```
This makes the router into a *Active Virtual Forwarder* (AVF) for group number 1. The AVF routers will elect an *Active Virtual Gateway* (AVG) which will manage the functioning of the group. The AVG distributes MAC addresses to AVFs. The AVG also responds to ARP requests for the virtual IP address, including one of the assigned AVF addresses in the ARP reply. In this way every ARP request gets a single unique response, but different devices on the network use different routers. When you use **show glbp brief**, the first line of the output describes the AVG of the group, while the remaining lines hsow the AVFs for the group.
```
R1# show glbp brief
Interface   Grp  Fwd Pri State    Address         Active router   Standby router

Fa0/0       1    -   100 Active   172.22.1.1      local           172.22.1.2

Fa0/0       1    1   7   Listen   0007.b400.0101  172.22.1.2      -
Fa0/0       1    2   7   Active   0007.b400.0102  local           -
R1#
```

Priority and preemption are configured the exact same way as HSRP.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# glbp 1 ip 10.0.0.1
R1(config-if)# glbp 1 priority 120
R1(config-if)# glbp 1 preempt
```
Authentication is the same, with the option of using plain text or MD5.

Cisco offers three different load balancing algorithms for use with GLBP.
```
R1(config-if)#glbp 1 load-balancing ?
  host-dependent  Load balance equally, source MAC determines forwarder choice
  round-robin     Load balance equally using each forwarder in turn
  weighted        Load balance in proportion to forwarder weighting
```
The default is round-robin, which means the AVG will simply alternate between AVF MACs for each ARP request it receives for the virtual IP address. Weighted is an option if you want to assign different weights to the AVFs to give some priority over the other AVFs.
```
R1(config-if)# glbp 1 weight 150
```
The default weight is 100. You can also make the weighting factor track objects or interfaces with the track command:
```
R1(config-if)# glbp 1 weight 11 decrement 25
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# track 11 interface Serial0/0 ip routing
```