---
name: 9.3.1
title: 9.3.1 - DHCP Server
short-title: DHCP Server
category: 9.3 DHCP
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.3.1.html
folder: network-services
---
#### General
IOS contains a DHCP server and relay agent software. It is a full service DHCP server that assigns addresses to clients from a pool, and can optionally assign additional parameters such as default gateway and DNS servers. Both the DHCP server and relay agent are enabled, but not configured, by default. If for some reason they have been disabled, you will see **no service dhcp** in the configuration. However, port 67, the DHCP server port, is closed by default and will not open until the DHCP server service has been configured and is running. The IOS DHCP relay agent becomes enabled and in the running state only after the **ip helper-address** command has been configured.

The DHCP server database is organized as a tree, so common parameters should be configured at the highest (network) level of the tree, as the tree has inheritance behavior and you go down the branches and leaves. This behavior of inheritance can be overridden.

DHCP address allocation is typically based on an IP address, whether it is the gateway address (giaddr field of the DHCP packet) or the incoming interface IP address. You can also use Option 82 to properly allocate the right address to DHCP clients.
#### DHCP Database Agent
The DHCP database agent is any host (FTP, TFTP, rcp server) or storage media on the DHCP server, that stores the DHCP bindings database. You can configure multiple DHCP database agents, and you can configure the interval between database updates and transfers for each agent. It is strongly recommended to use a database agent, though it is not required. The database agent can maintain DHCP state information during a router reload.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp database tftp://192.168.17.100/R1-DHCP timeout 80
```
By default, when an address conflict occurs, the address is removed form the pool and is not available for use again until the administrator resolves the conflict. To change this behavior use:
```
R1(config)# no ip dhcp conflict logging
```
If you are not using a database agent you should disable conflict logging.
#### DHCP Excluded Address
To exclude addresses from being assigned to clients, you should explicitly state it in your configuration. The IP address configured on the router interface is automatically excluded from the DHCP address pool, but the server assumes all other addresses in a DHCP address pool subnet are available for client assignment.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp excluded-address 192.168.17.1 192.168.17.99
```
#### DHCP Subnet Matching
It is important to understand the exact process by which the DHCP server identifies which address pool to use to service a client request.
- If the client is not directly connected (the giaddr field of the DHCPDISCOVER message is nonzero), the DHCP server assigns an address from a pool that matches the subnet of the giaddr field
- If the client is directly connected (giaddr is 0), the DHCP server assigns an address from a pool that matches the subnet of the receiving interface
#### Configuring a DHCP Pool
Before configuring a pool, you need to identify any needed DHCP options for the clients that are needed including:
- default boot image name
- default routers
- DNS servers
- NetBIOS name server
- primary subnet
- secondary subnets

You must also decide on a DNS domain name to use and NetBIOS node type.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp pool INE
R1(dhcp-config)# utilization mark high 80 log
R1(dhcp-config)# network 192.168.17.0/24
R1(dhcp-config)# domain-name internetbrew.com
R1(dhcp-config)# dns server 192.168.17.50 192.168.17.51
R1(dhcp-config)# bootfile tftp://192.168.17.40/client-bootfile
R1(dhcp-config)# default-router 192.168.17.1
R1(dhcp-config)# lease 30
R1(dhcp-config)# option 19 hex 01
R1(dhcp-config)# exit
R1(config)# ip dhcp excluded-address 192.168.17.1 192.168.17.99
```
#### DHCP Secondary Subnets
You can optionally configure secondary subnets on the DHCP pool. One use case is with DHCP relay - if the giaddr received in the DHCPDISCOVER matches an IP address from a secondary subnet, the DHCP server allocates an IP from that secondary subnet even if IP addresses are available in the primary subnet of the DHCP pool.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp pool INE
R1(dhcp-config)# network 192.168.17.0/24
R1(dhcp-config)# network 192.168.18.0/24 secondary
R1(config-dhcp-subnet-secondary)# override default-router 192.168.18.1
R1(config-dhcp-subnet-secondary)# end
```
#### Manual Bindings
An address binding is a mapping between the IP address and MAC address of a client. Manual bindings are IP addresses that have been manually mapped to the MAC address of hosts. In essence, they are just special address pools that define which clients should be assigned which IP addresses from the pool. These are different than statically assigned addresses that are administered outside of the DHCP server. Some hosts send a *client identifier*, DHCP option 61, in the DHCP packet. For these hosts, you can use the **client-identifier** DHCP command to identify the host. Others do not send a client identifier so you must use the **hardware-address**  command along with the host's MAC address.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp pool INE-R2
R1(dhcp-config)# host 155.1.23.2
R1(dhcp-config)# client-identifier 01b7.0813.8811.66
R1(dhcp-config)# exit
R1(config)# ip dhcp pool INE-R3
R1(dhcp-config)# host 155.1.23.3
R1(dhcp-config)# hardware-address b708.1388.11.99
R1(dhcp-config)# exit
```
Notice there is no limit to the number of manual bindings, but you can only configure one manual binding per DHCP host pool. To get around this labor intensive operation, you can use Static Mapping, which we will look at next.
#### Static Mapping
The DHCP--Static Mapping feature enables assignment of static IP addresses without creating numerous host pools with manual bindings by using a customer-created text file that the DHCP server reads.

The following is a sample static mapping text file:
```
*time* Jan 21 2005 03:52 PM
*version* 2
!IP address    Type    Hardware address     Lease expiration
10.0.0.4 /24   1       0090.bff6.081e       Infinite
10.0.0.5 /28   id      00b7.0813.88f1.66    Infinite
10.0.0.2 /21   1       0090.bff6.081d       Infinite
*end*
```
You must format the static mapping file correctly, and then configure the IOS router to read in the static mapping file.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp pool INE_STATIC
R1(dhcp-config)# origin file tftp://192.168.17.50/static-map
R1(dhcp-config)# end
```
#### Tuning DHCP Server Operations
By default, the IOS DHCP server pings a pool address twice before assigning a particular address to a requesting client. By default, a DHCP server waits two seconds before timing out a ping packet. If after 2 pings (waiting two seconds for each) the DHCP server has not received a reply, it assigns the tested address to the requesting client.
You can change this with:
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp ping packets 3
R1(config)# ip dhcp ping timeout 3000
```
This would set it to 3 pings and to wait for 3 seconds before timeouts.

If there is a separte BOOTP server on the network and you do not wish for the DHCP server to respond to BOOTP requests, you can configure the DHCP server to ignore any BOOTP requests:
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp bootp ignore
```




