---
name: 9.3.7
title: 9.3.7 - DHCP Information Option
short-title: DHCP Information Option
category: 9.3 DHCP
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.3.7.html
folder: network-services
---
Option 82, the relay agent information option,  is used to help the DHCP server determine which IP addresses to assign to which clients. The relay agent can insert information about itself using Option 82, and the DHCP server can use that information to properly allocate IP addresses to clients. Option 82 is mainly used in distributed environments, and provides additional information on "physical attachment" of the requesting client.

The formatting of Option 82 field is as follows. The option starts with 0×52 (82 decimal) followed by the total option length. The option is structured in sub-options, formatted in the same way: . The list of options is terminated with option 0xFF so you can easily spot Option 82 in a packet dump.

RFC 3046 defines just a couple of sub-options, namely the “remote-id” (option ID 0×2) and the “circuit-id” (ID 0×01). Keep in mind that IOS devices use sub-option 0×6 instead of 0×1 for circuit identification (at least the more recent IOS releases). The formatting of the sub-options is also vendor and software version dependent!

In IOS, you configure Option 82 information-option under the concept of a DHCP class.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp class TEST
R1(config-dhcp-class)# relay agent information
R1(config-dhcp-class-relayinfo)# relay-information hex 020c01020304*
R1(config-dhcp-class-relayinfo)# end
```
The value is specified in raw hex format. Next, after you have the class figured, you can associate it with a DHCP pool.
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp pool POOL
R1(dhcp-config)# network 204.12.1.0 /24
R1(dhcp-config)# class TEST
R1(config-dhcp-pool-class)# address range 204.12.1.100 204.12.1.100
R1(config-dhcp-pool-class)# end
```
[Here](http://blog.ine.com/2009/07/22/understanding-dhcp-option-82/) is an INE article describing Option 82.