---
name: 9.3.11
title: 9.3.11 - DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation
short-title: DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation
category: 9.3 DHCP
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.3.11.html
folder: network-services
---
DHCPv6 prefix delegation is a handy tool in which you can define a large pool of address space and also define that an allocation of prefix length X is assigned when a client makes a DHCPv6 REQUEST. This is most often used in ISPs, where they may want to dynamically assign addresses to customers. It might also have a use case in larger campuses or hub-and-spoke type networks. to implement prefix delegation for clients, the first step is to create the IPv6 pool:
```
R1(config)# ipv6 local pool DELIGv6POOL FDAB:CDEF::/40 56
```
The assigns a pool of prefix length 40 divided into /56 allocations per client. Next, we move on to configuring DHCPv6.
```
ISP(config)# ipv6 dhcp pool POOL
ISP(config-dhcpv6)# prefix-delegation pool DELIGv6POOL lifetime 1800 600
ISP(config-dhcpv6)# exit
```
Next, we assign the DHCPv6 pool to the interface facing our client.
```
ISP(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
ISP(config-if)# ipv6 dhcp server POOL
ISP(config-if)# end
```

Now, how would a client be configured? We jump to that next. On the WAN interface facing the priovider, the configuration might look like this.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# no ip address
R1(config-if)# ipv6 address autoconfig default
R1(config-if)# ipv6 enable
R1(config-if)# ipv6 dhcp client pd PREFDEL rapid-commit
R1(config-if)# end
```
First, notice the **default** keyword in the **ipv6 address** command. That automatically injects a default route into the routing table towards the provider once address space is assigned. The next important parameter is the **pd** keyword on the **ipv6 dhcp client** line. This stands for prefix delegation and tells the router to assign PREFDEL as our reference name.

Now is the part that gets interesting. If everything went correctly, our client router has now been delegated a /56 by the ISP. Let's say we then want to use those IPs for my two LAN facing interfaces, each with a /64 prefix. We use the reference we created earlier to specify the first 56 bits of our address, and then specify the other 8 bits of our /64 network address. It would look something like this:
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/2
R1(config-if)# ipv6 PREFDEL::1:0:0:1/64
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/3
R1(config-if)# ipv6 PREFDEL::2:0:0:1/64
```

A pretty cool feature if you can match a use case to it!