---
name: 9.3.9
title: 9.3.9 - SLAAC/DHCPv6 Interaction
short-title: SLAAC/DHCPv6 Interaction
category: 9.3 DHCP
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.3.9.html
folder: network-services
---
SLAAC may or may not involve the services of a DHCPv6 server. If more information needs to be shared with the client, or if state needs to be tracked, a DHCPv6 server is involved. Autoconfiguration allows hosts to partly derive their IPv6 address from their MAC addresses. If that behavior is not desired, DHCPv6 offers an alternative.

DHCPv6 comes in both a stateful and a stateless mode of operation. Stateful DHCPv6 operates in much the same way as DHCPv4. Hosts receive their address and other configuration items directly from the DHCPv6 server. With Stateless DHCPv6, the hosts receive their addressing through RA messages as with autoconfiguration and obtain other configuration parameters from a DHCPv6 server.

DHCPv6 uses the following communication addresses and ports:
- All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers (FF02::1:2)
- All_DHCP_Servers (FF02::1:3)
- UDP port 546 for messages snet to client
- UDP port 547 for messages sent to servers and relays

It is important to remember that how a client receives its dynamic IPv6 address is not always up to the client, but up to the router configuration regarding RA messages. If the host is depending on the Router Advertisement, the router controls this decision using the information in the RA message. The M flag (Managed Address Configuration flag) and O flag (Other Configuration flag) drive the configuration. Some operating systems can have the host ignore the flags if desired. The overall process looks like this:

**Step 1**	If the client has not already received a periodic RA, it sends a RS message to FF02::2 (all_routers). A host will send the RS message if it has been configured to dynamically receive its address configuration

**Step 2** The Router Advertisement message will contain the M and O flags which in IOS will make these three options available:
- **SLAAC**: if both the M and O flag are set to 0 (the IOS default), no DHCPv6 server is available
- **Stateful DHCPv6**: When the M flag is set to 1, this tells the host to use Stateful DHCPv6
- **Stateless DHCPv6**: When the M flag is set to 0 and the O flag is set to 1, it tells the client that address configuration items are in the RA messages, but there are additional information such as DNS servers available from a DHCPv6 server

If the M or O flag is set, the client proceeds with contacting a DHCPv6 server with a SOLICIT message. Continuing on...

**Step 3** The host sends a SOLICIT message to FF02::1:2

**Step 4** One or more DHCPv6 servers respond with an ADVERTISE message

**Step 5** The client sends a REQUEST (stateful) or INFORMATION-REQUEST (stateless) message to the server, depending on whether stateful or stateless DHCPv6 is being use.

**Step 6** The server responds with a REPLY message containing address information (staeful) and other configuration items (stateful & stateless)

We will cover configuring Stateful & Stateless DHCPv6 on our next post.