---
name: 9.5.10
title: 9.5.10 - Stateful NAT with HSRP
short-title: Stateful NAT with HSRP
category: 9.5 NAT
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.5.10.html
folder: network-services
---
HSRP, as we know, allows an *active* router to handle all requests sent to a default gateway on a LAN. A *standby* router waits to take over that function, should the active HSRP router fail. But now that we have learned about NAT, we know that if NAT is implemented there is a NAT table that exists on the active router, containing all the active translation that have not timed out. But what if the standby router takes over? What happens to all of those translatyions, are they just discarded?

This is where stateful NAT (SNAT) comes into play. SNAT provides support for asymmetric routing by sharing NAT tables across multiple routers. SNAT uses UDP messages to communicate NAT table updates between the primary and backup NAT routers. A consistent set of NAT entries is maintained through the exchange of these UDP messages. When a SNAT router fails, when it reloads it will request a dump of the current NAT entries from the active router. If for some reason you need to clear the NAT table, do it on the active router and let the active router propogate those changes to the standby router.

SNAT is embedded within HSRP. IF HSRP mode is selected, the primary and backup NAT routers are elected according to the HSRP standby state. Alternatively, SNAT can be manually defined as primary or backup. We will first look at how simple an HSRP configuration is.
```
R1(config)# ip nat stateful id 1
R1(config-ipnat-snat)# redundancy snathsrp
R1(config-ipnat-snat)# mapping-id 10
```
```
R2(config)# ip nat stateful id 2
R2(config-ipnat-snat)# redundancy snathsrp
R2(config-ipnat-snat)# mapping-id 10
```

