---
name: 9.6.2
title: 9.6.2 - IP Output Packet Accounting
short-title: IP Output Packet Accounting
category: 9.6 Traffic Accounting
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.6.2.html
folder: network-services
---
IP Accounting is a very useful accounting feature in IOS, but not as widely used as NetFlow. However compared to NetFlow, it is less resource intensive and provides easy results retrieval.
IP Accounting comes in 4 variations:
- Basic IP Accounting
- IP Accounting ACL
- IP Accounting MAC Address
- IP Accounting Precedence

Basic IP Accounting collects the number of bytes and packets processed on a source and destination IP address basis. Only transit traffic that enters and leaves the router is measured, and only on an outbound basis. Traffic generated by the router or traffic terminated to the router are not included. This does collect usage information by IP address, so it can be used to identify specific users for usage based billing.

Two databases are maintained. An *active* database is continuously updated with new information. A *checkpoint* database offers a frozen snapshot of the complete network.

Collection data is accessible via CLI and SNMP; however, the initial configuration must be done via CLI. Here is the initial configuration that must be done:
```
R1(config-if)# ip accounting output-packets
```
If you want to filter out certain addresses, an accounting-list can be implemented.
```
R1(config)# ip accounting-list 192.168.17.0 0.0.0.255
```
If a filter is applied, packets and bytes are kept only for the traffic that matches the filter, while all other traffic is aggregated into transit records. To control the number of transit records that are stored in the IP accounting database, use the **ip accounting-transits \<count\>** command.

To limit the number of source / destination address pairs that collect information on the router, use the following:
```
R1(config)# ip accounting-threshold <count>
```
The default is 512 entries and this total applies to both the active and checkpoint databases. When the traffic table is full, new entries are not accounted. However, a **show ip accounting** will show the total number of packets and bytes that were unaccounted for.

To see the active database use:
```
R1# show ip accounting output-packets
```
Alternatively, to see the checkpoint database, use:
```
R1# show ip accounting checkpoint output-packets
```
