---
name: 9.7.1
title: 9.7.1 - Netflow v5 & v9
short-title: Netflow v5 & v9
category: 9.7 Netflow
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.7.1.html
folder: network-services
---
NetFlow v5 ("traditional NetFlow") is by far the more popular version. The v5 packet format is fixed, and therefore easy to collect and decipher for most traffic reporting packages.  v5 does not have the concept of ingress and egress flows. There is no field in the v5 packet for direction. For v5 you apply **ip flow ingress** on every interface and the collector reverses the information behind the scenes. v5's defined packet fields made integration simple but also placed limits on its functionality.

v9 has many changes. The major one is that there is no longer a set number of fields in a NetFlow packet, as they are defined per cache flow. This is known as Flexible NetFlow. A template defines what the flows contain, and this template is sent out periodically to the collector. There is a default template included with v9, so if you do not configure Flexible NetFlow, the default template is sent to the collector. Another notable change is that v9 supports **ip flow egress** on an interface.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip flow ingress
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/2
R1(config-if)# ip flow egress
R1(config-if)# exit
Router(config)# ip flow-export version 9
Router(config)# ip flow-export destination 10.48.71.219 1234
Router(config)# ip flow-export source Loopback0
Router(config)# ip flow-export template refresh-rate 40
Router(config)# ip flow-export template timeout-rate 60
Router(config)# ip flow-export template options refresh-rate 40
Router(config)# ip flow-export template options timeout-rate 60
Router(config)# ip flow-export template options export-stats
Router(config)# ip flow-export template options sampler
```
Above is an example of a NetFlow v9 export configuration using the template parameters. There are 3 main advantages of using v9 **ip flow egress** versus just letting the collector work out the direction.
- perhaps you only want to collect flows on one interface, you cannot do that in v5 with ingress only collection
- perhaps you want to collect multicast traffic. You cannot do that with ingress alone as the multicast traffic direction is not determined until after the router processes the packets
- if WAN links are using compression, the outbound flow is calculated before the compression is applied, leading to unreliable and inaccurate. Using **ip flow egress** calculates the packet size after compression

The **refresh-rate** defines how frequently the template is sent. It defines after how many packets are exported should we send the template.

NetFlow v9 is the basis for the proposed standard IPFIX.