---
name: 9.7.4
title: 9.7.4 - Netflow Aggregation Cache
short-title: Netflow Aggregation Cache
category: 9.7 Netflow
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services\_sidebar
permalink: 9.7.4.html
folder: network-services
---
Netflow version 8 first introduced us to the aggregation cache. Aggregation of netflow data is usually done on management workstations to which netflow data has been exported. Router-based aggregation allows first-level aggregation of NetFlow records on the router by maintaining one or more *extra* NetFlow caches with different combinations of fields that determine which flows from the *main* cache are grouped.

As flows expire in the main cache, relevant fields are extracted from the expired flows, and the corresponding flow entry in the aggregation cache is updated. The same flow aging mechanisms are applied for both the main cache and the router-based aggregation caches. If you then export from the main cache and aggregation caches, redundant information will be included. Sometimes this is done for security and auditing purposes.

There are 5 non-TOS based aggregation schemes:
- AS aggregation scheme
- Destination-prefix aggregation scheme
- Prefix aggregation scheme
- Protocol-port aggregation scheme
- Source prefix aggregation scheme

Each aggregation scheme allows configuration of its individual cache size, its flow aging timeout paramaters, its export destination IP address and UDP port. The default size for the secondary NetFlow aggregation caches is 4096 entries.

There are 7 additional TOS based aggregation schemes:
- AS-ToS aggregation scheme
- Destination-prefix-ToS aggregation scheme
- Prefix-ToS aggregation scheme
- Protocol-port-ToS aggregation scheme
- Source-prefix-ToS aggregation scheme
- Prefix-port-ToS aggregation scheme
- BGP next-hop ToS aggregation scheme

The 12 schemes can be seen in flow configuration:
```
R1(config)#ip flow-aggregation cache ?
  as                      AS aggregation
  as-tos                  AS-TOS aggregation
  bgp-nexthop-tos         BGP nexthop TOS aggregation
  destination-prefix      Destination Prefix aggregation
  destination-prefix-tos  Destination Prefix TOS aggregation
  prefix                  Prefix aggregation
  prefix-port             Prefix-port aggregation
  prefix-tos              Prefix-TOS aggregation
  protocol-port           Protocol and port aggregation
  protocol-port-tos       Protocol, port and TOS aggregation
  source-prefix           Source Prefix aggregation
  source-prefix-tos       Source Prefix TOS aggregation
```

Here is an example of setting up a destination-prefix flow cache.
```
R1(config)# ip flow-aggregation cache destination prefix
R1(config-flow-cache)# cache entries 2046
R1(config-flow-cache)# cache timeout inactive 200
R1(config-flow-cache)# cache timeout active 45
R1(config-flow-cache)# export destination 192.168.17.51 9992
R1(config-flow-cache)# enabled
R1(config-flow-cache)# end
```
