---
name: 9.7.2
title: 9.7.2 - Netflow Ingress & Egress
short-title: Netflow Ingress & Egress
category: 9.7 Netflow
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.7.2.html
folder: network-services
---
We touched on this in the previous article. NetFlow v5 does not support **ip flow egress** on interfaces. It order to see outbound flows you must enable **ip flow ingress** on egress interfaces, and the collector will determine the direction for you when displaying traffic.

Ingress flow monitoring captures *all* flows entering the router, including packets destined for the router itself. Egress flow monitoring collects packets switched across router interfaces that are leaving via an egress interface, but it does not include packets originated from the router itself.


We stated this previously on the prior post, but it is worth stating again. There are 3 main advantages of using v9 **ip flow egress** versus just letting the collector work out the direction.
- perhaps you only want to collect flows on one interface, you cannot do that in v5 with ingress only collection
- perhaps you want to collect multicast traffic. You cannot do that with ingress alone as the multicast traffic direction is not determined until after the router processes the packets
- if WAN links are using compression, the outbound flow is calculated before the compression is applied, leading to unreliable and inaccurate. Using **ip flow egress** calculates the packet size after compression
