---
name: 9.8.3
title: 9.8.3 - Router ICMP Settings & TCP Optimization
short-title: Router ICMP Settings & TCP Optimization
category: 9.8 Miscellaneous Network Services
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.8.3.html
folder: network-services
---
#### ICMP Settings

##### no ip mask-reply
ICMP supports a mask request message that allows devices on a segment to learn about what the subnet mask is for the segment if this has not been configured on them. Any device, including a router, can generate an ICMP mask reply message. Hackers can use this for two purposes:
- tells the hacker what range of addresses exist on the network
- tells the hacker the directed broadcast for the subnet

```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# no ip mask-reply
R1(config-if)# end
```
##### no ip redirects
IP redirects occur when a router recognizes a packet arriving on an interface and the best route is out that same interface. The router will send an ICMP redirect back out the interface to inform the source about a better router on the same subnet. Subsequent packets take the optimal path. If you disable it, packets will take the suboptimal path and no redirect message will be sent to the source.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# no ip redirects
R1(config-if)# end
```
##### no ip unreachables
By default, if a Cisco router receives a nonbroadcast packet to itself with an unknown protocol, or if the router receives a packet that the router cannot forward to its destination because the host or network is not reachable, the router automatically generates an ICMP unreachable message. A hacker can use this information in two ways:
- this information tells the hacker what is not reachable in the network
- the hacker can use a DoS attack on the router by flooding it with packets the router is forced to generate ICMP unreachable messages for.


The **no ip unreachables** command disables ICMP Type 3 generation. This can cause many issues on a network if an egress port has a lower MTU because no "packet too big fragment needed" messages will be sent.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# no ip unreachables
R1(config-if)# end
```
##### ip icmp rate-limit
This command limits the frequency with which ICMP unreachables are allowed to be sent. The default value is 500, meaning that 1 ICMP unrecahable is allowed to be sent every 500ms, or 1/2 second.
```
R1(config)# ip icmp rate-limit unreachable 2000
```

#### TCP Optimizations

##### service nagle
The Nagle congestion-control algorithm is something that many ISPs turn on to improve the performance of their Telnet sessions to and from the router. This method is usually good for all TCP-based traffic and helps when connectivity to the router is poor or congested or the router itself is busier than normal. Without service nagle on a Cisco router, each character in a Telnet session is a separate CPU interrupt.
```
R1(config)# service nagle
```
##### ip tcp ecn
The TCP Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) feature allows an intermediate router to notify end hosts of impending network congestion. It also provides enhanced support for TCP sessions associated with applications, such as Telnet, web browsing, and transfer of audio and video data that are sensitive to delay or packet loss. The benefit of this feature is the reduction of delay and packet loss in data transmissions. Use the ip tcp ecn command in global configuration mode to enable TCP ECN.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp ecn
```
##### ip tcp selective-ack
The TCP Selective Acknowledgment feature improves performance if multiple packets are lost from one TCP window of data. Before TCP Selective Acknowledgements was created, if a receiving router lost packet number 4 and 7 out of a stream of 8 packets, the sending router would have to resend packets 4 through 8. With this feature turned on, only packets 4 and 7 would have to be resent.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp selective-ack
```
##### ip tcp timestamp
By forcing a RTT into every packet instead of one packet per TCP window, we can improve the performance of the TCP congestion algorithm. This would only apply to traffic originating from the router, so the use cases are limited. Perhaps a router with a large number of BGP peers could benefit.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp timestamp
```
##### ip tcp window-size
For Long Fat Networks, a larger TCP window size is recommended to improve performance.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp window-size ?
  <68-1073741823>  Window size
```
##### ip tcp queuemax
The default TCP outgoing queue size per connection is five segments if the connection has a TTY associated with it (such as a Telnet connection). If no TTY connection is associated with a connection, the default queue size is 20 segments. Use the ip tcp queuemax command to change the five-segment default value.
##### ip tcp synwait-time
This command sets the wait time before a TCP connection will time out. It only pertains to traffic that is originating at the router, not traffic transiting the router. The default timeout is 30 seconds. One use case for setting this lower is if you use telnet to test application reachability. Instead of waiting 30 seconds, or sending the break sequence, the connection attempt will timeout at the configured interval instead of taking 30 seconds.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp synwait-time 5
```
##### ip tcp path-mtu-discovery
We have seen PMTUD before. It is a method for maximizing the use of the available bandwidth in the network between endpoints of a TCP connection. When a router cannot forward a packet because the packet needs to be fragmented but the DF bit is set, it sends an ICMP "Fragmentation needed but DF bit set" message to the sender. Once receiving this message, the sender reduces its MTU to a size that will pass through the network.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp path-mtu-discovery
```