---
name: 9.8.7
title: 9.8.7 - IP Event Dampening
short-title: IP Event Dampening
category: 9.8 Miscellaneous Network Services
collection: network-services
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: services_sidebar
permalink: 9.8.7.html
folder: network-services
---
When interfaces go up and down, routing protocols are notified of the status of the routes that are affected by the change in state. Depending on the protocol and topology, a state change could result in many devices having to recalculate the best path, install/uninstall routes, and inform peers of the changes. The IP Event Dampening feature introduces a configurable exponential decay mechanism to supress the effects of excessive interface flapping events on routing protocols. Dampening an interface remove sthe interface from the network until the interface stops flapping and becomes stable.

There are a number of values that go into the decay algorithm.

- **Half-life Period**: this determines how fast the accumalted penalty can decay exponentially. The penalty will drop by half after X amount of seconds passes. The fault value is 5 seconds.
- **Reuse Threshold**: when the accumulated penalty drops to the reusethreshold, the route is unsuppressed and made available to the other device on the network. The default value is 1000 penalties.
- **Suppress Threshold**: this is a cumulative value of all the penalties that will trigger the router to dampen a flapping interface. So if the suppress threshold were set to 
- **Maximum Suppress Time**: this represents the maximum amount of time an interface can be dampened. The default is 20 seconds, but can be configured up to 20,000 seconds.

When dampened, the connected and static routes of an interface are not installed in the routing table. Once the dampened interface is unsupressed, the routes will be reinstalled to the routing table, so long as the interface is up.

IP Event Dampening supports RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS, BGP, and HSRP. For the routing protocols, the following behavior occurs.
- when an interface is dampened, the RPs will not hold any adjacencies off this interface or generate any advertisements of any routes related to this interface that could be sent to peers connected to other up interfaces
- when the interface is unsupressed, the routing protocol is notified and if Up/Up, normal routing process involving the interfaces continues

Pretty much the same thing with HSRP. As soon as the interface gets dampened, HSRP no longer responds to messgaes form that interface. The HSRP will consider it down, and the standby router should take over.

Remember, that configuration is done at the interface level.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# dampening
R1(config-if)# end
```
This would enable dampening on the interface with all the default timers.

You can also apply a restart penalty in case the router reloads. This is useful in case a router is undergoing hardware issues due to memory or processor load. Without the penalty, the router's interface would not be dampened and be available as soon as it came up.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# dampening 30 1000 2000 60 restart 2000
R1(config-if)# end
```

To see general information about router dampening, use **show dampening interface**.
```
R1# show dampening interface
3 interfaces are configured with dampening. No interface is being suppressed.
Features that are using interface dampening:
IP Routing
```

To see more detailed information, use **show interface dampening***.
```
Router# show interface dampening GigabitEthernet0/0/0
  Flaps Penalty    Supp ReuseTm   HalfL  ReuseV   SuppV  MaxSTm    MaxP Restart
      0       0   FALSE       0       5    1000    2000      20   16000       0
ATM2/0/0
  Flaps Penalty    Supp ReuseTm   HalfL  ReuseV   SuppV  MaxSTm    MaxP Restart
      0       0   FALSE       0       5    1000    2000      20   16000       0
POS2/0/0
  Flaps Penalty    Supp ReuseTm   HalfL  ReuseV   SuppV  MaxSTm    MaxP Restart
      0       0   FALSE       0       5    1000    2000      20   16000       0
```