---
name: 3.10.3
title: 3.10.3 - IS-IS Network Types
short-title: IS-IS Network Types
category: 3.10 IS-IS
collection: isis
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: isis_sidebar
permalink: 3.10.3.html
folder: isis
---
IS-IS natively supports only two network types:
- broadcast
- point-to-point

This means that IS-IS has no special operational mode in which to operate correctly over partially meshed data link layer technologies such as frame relay. You should run IS-IS as a collection of point-to-point subinterfaces over this type of network.

It is noteworthy to mention that what IS-IS calls broadcast links should much better be called multiaccess links. The reason is that IS-IS is not really concerned about the capability of the data link layer technology to replicate broadcasts and multicasts but rather to create a communication environment in which multiple neighbors can be reached over the same interface, and each router can talk to each other router on the link. While we will adhere to the terminology specified in the IS-IS standard by using the term broadcast, the true meaning is more relevant to the term multiaccess.

#### Operation over Point-to-Point Links
On point-to-point interfaces, IS-IS expects to detect a single neighbor, bring up an adjacency, and then synchronize link-state databases. The adjacency is verified with a three-way handshake. As soon as the adjacency is up, each router on the point-to-point link will flood its LSPs to its neighbor. In addition, CSNP packets are exchanged describing the LSPs in the neighbor's link-state database. If there is an LSP decribed in the CSNP packet that the local router does not have, it will explicitly request it from its neighbor with a PSNP packet.

Every LSP sent over a point-to-point link must be acknowledged, either with a CSNP or PSNP packet. Usually it is done with PSNP packets.

#### Operation over Broadcast Links
IS-IS shares many characteristics with OSPF when operating on broadcast networks. IS-IS elects a single Designated IS for each broadcast network - there is no concept of a Backup DIS. A DIS is elected based on this criteria:
- the router with the highest interface priority
- the router with the highest SNPA
- the router with the highest System ID

Unlike OSPF, 0, when used as the priority, does not signal that the router cannot be a DIS. Also unlike OSPF, DIS elections in IS-IS are preemptive, and are thus deterministic. Also, unlike OSPF, IS-IS routers on a broadcast network all become adjacent with each other, not just with the DIS as OSPF operates. Further, when an IS on a shared segment sends an LSP on the network, other IS router receive and process the LSU. You may be wondering what the role of the DIS is then. The DIS serves two important roles on a broadcast link:
- helping routers on a broadcast link to synchronize
- representing the broadcast segment in the link-state database as a Pseudonode

The DIS helps synchronize the broadcast network by sending a periodic CSNP packet every 10 seconds. It is a simple process and the DIS is not a relay agent for LSPs. If a router receives a CSNP packet that doesn't list one of its LSPs, the router directly floods the LSP to all routers on the broadcast segment.

We mentioned this in the neighbor formation section - one an IS is elected as a DIS, it shortens its own Hello and Hold timers to just one-third of its configured value.
