---
name: 3.10.6
title: 3.10.6 - IS-IS Operations
short-title: IS-IS Operations
category: 3.10 IS-IS
collection: isis
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: isis\_sidebar
permalink: 3.10.6.html
folder: isis
---
- encapsulates its messages directly into data-link frames

#### Terminology
In IS-IS, an End System (ES) is a host while an Intermediate System (IS) is a router. *Circuit* stands for an interface and *Domain* is used instead of autonomous system.

#### Addressing

NSAP addressing is used instead of IP addressing. a NSAP address is assigned to an entire node, not just an interface. The minimum size of an NSAP address is 8 octets while the maximum is 20 octets. There is no concept of a subnet with IS_IS - routing between two networks is accomplished by each IS assembling a list of all attached ES nodes and advertising it to its neighbors.

#### Link State Protocol Data Unit (LSP)
We have already seen that IS-IS maintains separate databases for each level. LSPs are used to advertise the information in the link state databases. They are similar to OSPF LSAs, but there are not different types of LSPs to describe different network objects. Instead, the LSP contains Type-Length-Value records inside the LSP variably-sized payload. Each LSP is uniquely identified by an LSPID. If two LSPs exist with the same LSPID, then the one with the higher sequence number is more recent.

Each LSP has a Remaining Lifetime value associated with it. When originated, the Remaining Lifetime is set to 1200 seconds (20 minutes), and is decreased. IS-IS routers refresh their self-originated LSPs every 15 minutes. If the LSP’s Remaining Lifetime decreases to 0, the router will delete the LSP’s body from the link-state database, keep only its header, and advertise the empty LSP with the Remaining Lifetime set to 0. Flooding an empty LSP with the Remaining Lifetime set to 0 is called an *LSP purge*. Router purging an LSP will not flush the LSP from its link-state database just yet, though. The expired LSP can be purged from the link-state database after an additional time called *ZeroAgeLifetime* set to 60 seconds. This is done to ensure that the LSP’s header is retained until the purged LSP has been safely propagated to all neighbors. Cisco routers, however, appear to hold the empty LSP header for another 20 minutes.

Since LSPs are variably sized and are encapsulated directly onto the Layer 2 medium, IS-IS must have its own fragmentation mechanism to dela with messages that are longer than the data-link MTU. The IS-IS router handles this by simply breaking up the TLV records into multiple LSPs.

CSNP packets are sent to advertise a complete list of all LSPs in the router's database. This is very similar to the OSPF Database Descriptor Packets.

#### O bit
The Overload bit was originally intended to signal that the router is, for whatever reason, unable to store all LSPs in its memory, and that its link-state database is overload- ed. Running SPF over an incomplete link-state database will produce an incomplete rout- ing table, and routing packets over this router to distant networks could result in routing loops or traffic blackholing. Therefore, if a router’s LSP has the O bit set, the SPF com- putation on other routers will ignore this router when computing shortest paths to other routers and their networks. However, the SPF will still take the directly attached networks of this router into account because these continue to be reachable. In other words, if the O bit set is on an LSP, the SPF calculation will ignore all “IS” adjacencies indicated in the LSP, but it will continue to process the end system adjacencies, such as “IP,” that denote directly attached networks. The router will thus not be used as a transit router to other routers, but it still will be considered as a router usable to reach its own directly con- nected networks.

Today, the use cases of the O bit have evolved beyond its original meaning and intention. As it can also be set or cleared by a configuration command, it is very useful when, say,
a router needs to be taken out of service for maintenance without causing major disrup- tion to the network. Instead of simply shutting the router down, setting the O bit first will make other routers immediately recalculate their routing tables, computing alternate paths (if such paths exist) that do not traverse this router. The network converges on alternate paths much sooner than it would take if the router was simply taken offline and other routers needed to wait for its Hold timer to expire. Also, the O bit is very useful if a new router is to be attached to a network, its routing table populated by IS-IS and its behavior verified, without actually having the network route the packets through the new router.

#### Authentication
IS-IS authentication is configured in a somewhat peculiar way: IIH packets are authenti- cated independently of LSP, CSNP, and PSNP packets. The consequence is that for L1 LSPs,
all routers within the area must use the same area password—the level-1 authentica- tion password, while for L2 LSPs, all L2-enabled routers within the L2 subdomain must use the same domain password—the level-2 authentication password, to authenticate LSPs. If a single area or domain password was used to authenticate all packets, however, all routers in the area or in the backbone would be using the same password, which can be considered a security drawback. Therefore, to authenticate adjacencies themselves, IS-IS allows you to separately authenticate IIH packets.

#### Configuration Notes
- IS-IS has no **network** command, thus per-interface is the way to add interfaces and networks into IS-IS
- the **passive-interface** command causes the interface to not form adjacencies but yet the network will still be advertised into IS-IS
- unlike other IGPs, IS-IS does not sue a separate process configuration for IPv6

