---
name: 3.10.2
title: 3.10.2 - IS-IS Neighbor Relationships
short-title: IS-IS Neighbor Relationships
category: 3.10 IS-IS
collection: isis
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: isis\_sidebar
permalink: 3.10.2.html
folder: isis
---
IS-IS routers operate on each routing level independently. For each routing level, be it Level 1 or Level 2, an IS-IS router establishes separate adjacencies with its neighbors running on the same level, and maintains a separate link-state database. In addition, as each router belongs to a single area (recall that only a single NET is usually configured on a router, and the NET carries the area identifier), Level 1 adjacencies are created only between routers with the same area identifier. 

On broadcast-type interfaces, IS-IS routers use separate Hello packet types for L1 and L2 adjacencies. On point-to-point type interfaces, for efficiency reasons, a single L1L2 Hello, also called a point-to-point Hello, is used. Each router sends Hello packets every 10 seconds by default; the interval can be configured in the range of 1 to 65535 seconds using a per-interface **isis hello-interval seconds \[ level \]** command for a particular routing level. Instead of defining a Hold timer directly, a Hello multiplier value is used to compute the Hold time as the Hello value multiplied by the Hello multiplier value. The default Hello multiplier value is 3, resulting in a Hold time of 30 seconds. The multiplier value can be changed by a per-interface **isis hello-multiplier multiplier \[ level \]** command. As opposed to OSPF, timers do not need to match on neighboring routers.

On a DIS, the individual Hello and Hold timers are always one-third of the configured timers. This is done in order to detect a DIS outage quickly.

So in summary, IS-IS uses 3 types of Hello packets: Level 1 Hello, Level 2 Hello, and L1L2 Hello (used on point-to-point networks).



