---
name: 3.10.5
title: 3.10.5 - IS-IS Router Types
short-title: IS-IS Router Types
category: 3.10 IS-IS
collection: isis
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: isis\_sidebar
permalink: 3.10.5.html
folder: isis
---

L1 routers are intra-area only. They are most like an OSPF NSSA Totally Stubby Area. They see their own area and nothing more, but yet they do permit external redistribution.

L2 routers create adjacencies with other L2 routers and share all information present in their L2 link-state databases.

A L1L2 router is a router capable of functioning as either a L1 or a L2 router. They are similar to an ABR in OSPF.

On Cisco routers, the default is L1L2 mode, and the Administrative Distance for IS-IS learned routes is 115.

What designates what level a router is? It's all in the addressing. The AFI, IDI, and HO-DSP portions of the address uniquely identify an area. If two routers are in the same area, then they are Level 1 routing. If two interconnected routers are not configured in the same area but are L1 routers, they will never form an adjacency. L2 routers establish adjacencies regardless of their configured areas.

Notice that with IS-IS, routers can only be a part of one area. This is different than OSPF where you could have one interface in one area and another interface in a completely different area (the definition of an ABR).IS-IS

LSPs are never leaked between L1 and L2 routers. Instead, IP routing information from the router's link-state database is injected into L2 LSPs. IP routing information flows from L1 to L2, never vise versa.

On Cisco routers, the default is L1L2 mode.