---
name: 3.10.7
title: 3.10.7 - IS-IS Metrics
short-title: IS-IS Metrics
category: 3.10 IS-IS
collection: isis
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: isis_sidebar
permalink: 3.10.7.html
folder: isis
---
#### Normal Metrics
IS-IS metrics are assigned to individual interfaces (links). The original IS-IS specification defines four types of metrics:
- **Default:** Required to be supported by all IS-IS implementations; usually relates to the bandwidth of the link (higher value represents a slower link)
- **Delay:** Relates to the transit delay on the link
- **Expense:** Relates to the monetary cost of carrying data through the link
- **Error:** Relates to the residual bit error rate of the link

Each of these metrics is intended to be evaluated independently in the SPF calculation, effectively resulting in four independent shortest-path trees (and thus routing tables), each one computed according to a particular metric. *Most IS-IS implementations today support only the default metric*.

Cisco IS-IS implementation assigns all interfaces the default metric of 10, regardless of their bandwidth. Contrary to OSPF implementation, Cisco IOS does not automatically recalculate an interface’s bandwidth into its IS-IS metric. It is up to the administrator to configure different interface metrics if necessary using the isis metric metric [ level ] per-interface command. Other types of metrics can be configured but are advertised as unsupported in IS-IS advertisements.

#### Wide Metrics
The original IS-IS specification and RFC 1195 define any single interface (link) and attached network metric to be 6 bits wide, resulting in the range of 1–63, and the com- plete path metric as 10 bits wide in the range of 1–1023. At the time IS-IS was defined, these metric widths were considered adequate. Today’s requirements, however, call for a much wider range of metrics. Therefore, in RFC 3784 (now RFC 5305), so-called *wide metrics* were introduced, allowing for a 24-bit width for the interface metric and a 32-bit width for the entire path metric.
