---
name: 3.6.9.12
title: 3.6.9.12 - Graceful Restart & NSF
short-title: Graceful Restart & NSF
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.12.html
folder: ospf
---
Under very specific situations, a router may undergo certain well-known failure conditions that should not affect packet forwarding across the switching platform. NSF capability allows for the forwarding of data packets to continue along routes that are already known, while the routing protocol information is being restored. This capability is useful in cases in which there is a component failure (for example, a Route Processor [RP] crash with a backup RP taking over) or in which there is a scheduled hitless software upgrade.

Prior to RFC 3623, Cisco implemented Cisco-proprietary NSF, referred to as Cisco NSF. The OSPF RFC 3623 Graceful Restart feature allows you to configure IETF NSF in multivendor networks. Configuring IETF NSF increases the availability of your network by allowing OSPF routers to stay on the forwarding path even as their OSPF software is restarted. **nsf cisco** is used to implement the legacy NSF while **nsf ietf** is used to implement the IETF version.

There are two prerequisites for configuring NSF:
- OSPF must be configured on the router
- The router undergoing OSPF graceful restart must be capable of performing a stateful switchover (SSO) operation.

Cisco NSF is not supported over virtual links.

An OSPF NSF-capable router that is reloading and attempting a graceful restart originates grace-lsas to notify its neighbors that it will perform graceful restart within the specified amount of time or grace period. During this grace period, the neighboring OSPF routers, called helper routers, continue to announce the restarting router in their LSAs as if it were fully adjacent, as long as the network topology remains static.

There are many other requirements and conditions required. For a full description, see the official Cisco [guide](http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios/12_0s/feature/guide/gr_ospf.html).

```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# nsf ietf 300
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The above would set the graceful restart interval to 300 seconds.

On the helper routers, graceful restart helper mode is enabled by default. It is not recommended to disable helper mode because the disabled neighbor will detect the lost adjacency and the graceful restart process will be terminated.

The strict LSA checking feature allows a helper router to terminate the graceful restart process if it detects a changed LSA that would cause flooding during the graceful restart process. Strict LSA checking is disabled by default. You can enable strict LSA checking on an OSPF helper to have the router terminate graceful restart when there is a change to an LSA that would be flooded to the restarting router. You can configure strict LSA checking on both NSF-aware and NSF-capable routers; however, this feature will become effective only when the router is in helper mode.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# nsf ietf helper strict-lsa-checking
R1(config-router)# exit
```
