---
name: 3.6.11.2
title: 3.6.11.2 - OSPFv3
short-title: OSPFv3
category: 3.6.11 OSPFv3
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.11.2.html
folder: ospf
---
We just reviewed the differences in OSPFv3 LSAs. Again the most significant difference is the separation of addressing from the SPF Tree. Adding or modifying IP subnets within the OSPF domain will not affect the integrity of the SPF tree.

With OSPFv2, routers form adjacencies using its configured IPv4 interface address. However in OSPFv3, all neighbor adjacencies are formed using link-local addresses.

OSPFv2 neighbors on broadcast and NBMA links are identified by their interface addresses, whereas neighbors on other types of links are identified by RID. OSPFv3 removes this inconsistency, so that all neighbors on all link types are identified by RID.

OSPFv3 also adds support for running multiple OSPFv3 processes per link. When you did this in OSPFv2 using hacks involving authentication, but it is not ideal and there will be continuous authentication failures and logging between routers in separate instances. OSPFv3 adds the Instance ID to the OSPF packet header to distinguish between processes.

IPv6 has, using the Authentication extension header, a standard authentication procedure. Because of this, OSPFv3 has no need for its own authentication of OSPFv3 packets; it just uses IPv6 authentication.

Where OSPFv2 always discards unknown LSA types, OSPFv3 can either treat them as having link-local flooding scope, or store and flood them as if they are understood, while ignoring them in their own SPF algorithms. This can result in easier network changes and easier integration of new capabilities in OSPFv3 than in OSPFv2.

The IPv6 AllSPFRouters multicast address is FF02::5, and the AllDRouters multicast address is FF02::6. Both have link-local scope.

Within the Cisco Implementation, there are several differences between OSPFv2 and OSPFv3.
- Enabling OSPF on an IPv6 interface automatically enables OSPFv3; an explicit OSPFv3 routing process does not need to be administratively created (though it likely still will be for other purposes).
- OSPFv3 interfaces must be designated under interface configuration; there is no option to designate interfaces using the network command under router configuration.
- NBMA neighbors must be identified by link-local IPv6 address.
- Like OSPFv2, OSPFv3 will take its router ID from the highest-numbered IPv4 loopback interface; however, as this IPv4 address is likely irrelevant your IPv6 network, it is recommended to manually specify a router ID with the router-id command under OSPFv3 router configuration.
