---
name: 3.6.8.1
title: 3.6.8.1 - Default Routing
short-title: Default Routing
category: 3.6.8 OSPF Default Routing
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.8.1.html
folder: ospf
---
Default routing for non-stub areas in OSPF is accomplished through the origination of Type-5 External LSAs via the **default-information originate** command. Without any additional arguments, the OSPF process first checks to see if a default route is installed in the routing table. If a default route is already installed, such as via a static route or learned via BGP, the OSPF default route is originated. If the default route is not found, no origination occurs. This behavior is typically desirable in designs with multiple exit points out of the OSPF domain to upstream networks.

For example, imagine an OSPF network with exit points A and B out to the Internet. Both router A and B are running BGP with upstream peers, and learning a default route via BGP. As long as both devices maintain their upstream peerings, a default route can be advertised into OSPF. However, if A’s link to the upstream neighbor is lost, and hence its default route via BGP is lost, its OSPF default route advertisement is withdrawn. The result of this design is that an individual exit point will only collect default traffic if they themselves have a default exit point to upstream networks. This behavior can be modified by adding the **always** argument to the **default-information originate** statement, which essentially skips the checking for a default route already being installed in the table.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# default-information originate always metric 40 metric-type 1
R1(config-router)# exit
```
