---
name: 3.6.4.8
title: 3.6.4.8 - Virtual Link
short-title: Virtual Link
category: 3.6.4 OSPF Authentication
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.4.8.html
folder: ospf
---

When establishing a virtual link you also have the ability to enable authentication, either plain text or MD5. There are two parts to the configuration. First, you set area 0 authentication in router configuration mode. Next, you establish the virtual link authentication during the virtual link creation.


Since virtual links make discontiguous routers believe they are attached to Area 0, OSPF authentication should be configured for all attached areas AND Area 0.

Virtual links support both plain text and MD5 authentication. There is one trick, however, to get authentication across a virtual link to work. When a virtual link is configured, the ABR of the area that is not physically connected to Area 0 now believes that it is part of area 0. Therefore, in addition to configuring authentication for the areas the ABR is attached to, authentication must also be configured for area 0 on the ABR, if you have security implemented already.

When I labbed this up, I used the following configuration:
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# area 1 virtual-link 150.1.4.4 authentication-key CISCO
R1(config-router)# exit
```
After configuring the far end, the virtual link came up. So you can have authentication for just the virtual link, but if area 0 already has authentication enabled globally, then you need to be sure to enable area 0 authentication on the ABRs which include the virtual link.
