---
name: 3.6.9.9
title: 3.6.9.9 - Flooding Reduction
short-title: Flooding Reduction
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.9.html
folder: ospf
---
The OSPF flooding reduction feature is a slight modification of the demand circuits designed to reduce additional traffic on links arising from a periodic LSA refresh. It uses the same mechanism to eliminate the need for the periodic LSA refresh. Generally routers are not immediately connected to the link and cannot identify if it is configured as a demand circuit or a flooding reduction link - the database representation of both types of links is the same.

The main difference between flooding reduction and demand circuits is that former suppresses only periodic LSA refreshes; it does not suppress periodic hello packets. Thus, the flooding reduction feature does not impair the detection of a neighbor router going down.

Flooding reduction links have the same constraints as demand circuits. In particular, all routers in the area must support the demand circuit feature in order for flooding reduction to work. Troubleshooting techniques for both demand circuits and flooding reduction links are also common.

Per RFC 2328, OSPF Version 2, “an LSA's LS age is never incremented past the
value MaxAge." When the Link State Age reaches MaxAge, "the router must attempt to flush the LSA... by reflooding the MaxAge LSA just as if it was a newly originated LSA".

In Cisco’s IOS implementation of OSPF, the MaxAge value is 3600 seconds, or 60 minutes. To ensure that an LSA is not aged out, which means it will be flushed from the OSPF database, each LSA is reflooded after 30 minutes, regardless of whether the topology is stable or not. This periodic flooding behavior is commonly referred to as the “paranoid update.” The **ip ospf flood-reduction** feature stops unnecessary LSA flooding by setting the DoNotAge (DNA) bit in the LSA, removing the requirement for the periodic refresh.

```
R1(config)# interface Serail0/1
R1(config-if)# ip ospf flood-reduction
R1(config-if)# exit
```

On interface Serial0/1 as configured above, no periodic LSA refreshes are sent over the link but hellos are. Since this feature, like the On-Demand feature used to suppress LSA refresh plush Periodic Hellos, uses the DNA bit, it looks like it can be used on point-to-point and point-to-multipoint networks only.
