---
name: 3.6.7.1
title: 3.6.7.1 - Filtering with Distribute-Lists
short-title: Filtering with Distribute-Lists
category: 3.6.7 OSPF Filtering
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.7.1.html
folder: ospf
---
#### Filtering overview
Filters can only be applied at very specific points in the OSPF network. This is vastly different from the other IGPs we have studies thus far. Most of the time, this OSPF filtering is done on the ABRs. We are not filtering out the LSA from the Link State Database - we are simply preventing the route from being installed in the routing table.

When we are filtering between areas, there are a couple of methods:
- Filtering with Summarization
- LSA Type-3 Filtering
- NSSA ABR External Prefix Filtering
- Transit prefix suppression

The actual OSPF RIB can be filtered anywhere However this can be dangerous as it does not stop the flooding of LSAs within the area. These are the tools with which to accomplish.
- Distribute-list with ACL
- Distribute-list with Route-map
- Administrative Distance

There is only one way we can actually filter the Link State Database. There are the commands **ip ospf database-filter all out** or **neighbor 10.10.10.1 database-filter all out** that prevents the OSPF process from sending out any LSAs to those adjacencies. This should only be done if you are sure the LSAs are being flooded to those routers by other means. The purpose of this feature is to limit the amount of flooding on NBMA subnets shared by many routers, not to prevent any router from receiving area LSAs.


#### Distribute-Lists
Distribute-lists work by preventing optimal paths as calculated by OSPF from entering the RIB. They are used to filter inter-area routes learned by an ABR from area 0 from being installed in the RIB of a particular area. Distribute-lists do not filter LSAs, so extreme caution has to be used - you need to make sure that all routers in the forwarding path of the routes have the distribute-lists installed, or else routing loops might occur. You can see below that we can use access lists, prefix lists, or route maps with the distribute-list command.

```
R1(config)#router ospf 1
R1(config-router)#distribute-list ?
  <1-199>      IP access list number
  <1300-2699>  IP expanded access list number
  WORD         Access-list name
  gateway      Filtering incoming updates based on gateway
  prefix       Filter prefixes in routing updates
  route-map    Filter prefixes based on the route-map
```

Distribute lists with OSPF are used to prevent routes from being installed in the local router's RIB. Therefore, they can only be used for inbound filtering. If you try to use a distribute list to filter what routes are shared with otheres, you will get the following error:
```
R6# distribute-list prefix NO_37 out gigabitEthernet0/1.146
% Interface not allowed with OUT in case of OSPF
```
The only exception to this is an ASBR. You can configure an outbound distribute-list on an OSPF router that is an ASBR.


When using access lists and prefix lists, deny statements prevent the routes from being installed in the local router's route table. But again, you must always remember that it does not prevent the router from having the LSA in its database nor does it prevent the router from sharing the LSA with its neighbors.
