---
name: 3.6.9.13
title: 3.6.9.13 - Incremental SPF
short-title: Incremental SPF
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.13.html
folder: ospf
---
When a change occurs in an OSPF network, LSAs are flooded to inform all routers within the flood scope of the topology change. When a change to a Type-1 or Type-2 LSA occurs in an area, the entire SPT has to be recalculated. But what if this topology change only affects a small portion of the tree? Wouldn't it be nice if we didn't have to recalculate the entire tree, but only the portion that was affected? This is where iSPF, or incremental SPF, aids.

Incremental SPF allows the recalculation of the affected area without the overhead caused from full SPF recalculation as long as the affected link is a leaf in the SPT. The result is faster convergence and the reduction of CPU utilization.


Note that if the change to a Type-1 or Type-2 LSA occurs in the calculating router itself, then the full SPT is performed. Also, incremental SPF is scheduled in the same way as the full SPF. Routers enabled with incremental SPF and routers not enabled with incremental SPF can function in the same internetwork.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# ispf
R1(config-router)# exit
```
This was a huge improvement when CPU and memory were limiting resources in early versions of Cisco hardware. Today, it does not have nearly the same effect. Also, routers with Incremental SPF enabled can interoperate with OSPF routers that do not have the feature enabled.
