---
name: 3.6.3.6
title: 3.6.3.6 - Virtual Links
short-title: Virtual Links
category: 3.6.3 OSPF Path Selection
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.3.6.html
folder: ospf
---
Virtual links are used to connect an area logically to the backbone. They are a special configuration that are interpreted by the router as an unnumbered point-to-point links. Virtual links are used for two reasons.
1. To link an area to the backbone through a non-backbone area.
2. To connect the two parts of a partitioned backbone through a nonbackbone area

A third reason not in the OSPF definition would be to use non-backbone areas to reach destinations in other areas. See the previous post on Non-Backbone transit areas.

The virtual link is a tunnel through which packets may be routed on the optimal path from one endpoint to the other. There are several rules associated with the configuration of virtual links:
- Virtual links must be configured between two ABRs. They are configured using Router IDs, not IP addresses!
- The area through which the virtual link is configured, known as the transit area, must have full routing information.
- The transit area cannot be a stub area.

The two ABRs connected via the virtual link are considered neighbors. Within each ABR, the virtual link will transition to the fully functional point-to-point interface state when a route to the neighboring ABR is found in the route table. The cost of the link is the cost of the route to the neighbor. If you look at the OSPF interface it will list the Hello_Interval - just remember that router's do not send Hellos across virtual links, other than at first initialization to establish adjacency.

The virtual link must be configured in both routers. The configuration information in each router consists of the other virtual endpoint (the other ABR's Router ID) and the nonbackbone area that the two routers have in common (called the transit area). Note that virtual links cannot be configured through stub areas. The link can be multihop, and the ensuing tunnel will be unicast. It will follow the data plane already calculated by the STP. Also, it is run as a demand circuit. Because of this, configuration errors may be hidden until flooding occurs. In the scope of the exam, you should clear the OSPF process after configuring a virtual link to ensure the configuration is correct.

The transit area should not have filtering applied - no LSA Type-3 filters, no distribute-lists, etc. Also, the SPT cost between endpoints must be below 65535.

The virtual link LSA will list DNA in the Age field of its entries. What this means is that "paranoid" updates are not sent every 30 minutes across virtual links by default.

The command **show ip ospf border-routers** is a good way to check virtual links.
