---
name: 3.6.11.7
title: 3.6.11.7 - OSPFv3 IPSec Authentication
short-title: OSPFv3 IPSec Authentication
category: 3.6.11 OSPFv3
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.11.7.html
folder: ospf
---
In order to ensure that Open Shortest Path First version 3 (OSPFv3) packets are not altered and re-sent to the device, OSPFv3 packets must be authenticated. OSPFv3 uses the IPsec secure socket API to add authentication to OSPFv3 packets. This API supports IPv6.

One restriction is that the IP Base license package does not support IPSec, so you must ensure the Advanced Enterprise Service package is used.

In OSPFv3, authentication fields have been removed from OSPFv3 packet headers. When OSPFv3 runs on IPv6, OSPFv3 requires the IPv6 authentication header (AH) or IPv6 ESP header to ensure integrity, authentication, and confidentiality of routing exchanges. IPv6 AH and ESP extension headers can be used to provide authentication and confidentiality to OSPFv3.

To use the IPsec AH, you must enable the ipv6 ospf authentication command. To use the IPsec ESP header, you must enable the ipv6 ospf encryption command. The ESP header may be applied alone or in combination with the AH, and when ESP is used, both encryption and authentication are provided. Security services can be provided between a pair of communicating hosts, between a pair of communicating security gateways, or between a security gateway and a host.

To configure IPsec, you configure a security policy, which is a combination of the security policy index (SPI) and the key (the key is used to create and validate the hash value). IPsec for OSPFv3 can be configured on an interface or on an OSPFv3 area. For higher security, you should configure a different policy on each interface configured with IPsec. If you configure IPsec for an OSPFv3 area, the policy is applied to all of the interfaces in that area, except for the interfaces that have IPsec configured directly. Once IPsec is configured for OSPFv3, IPsec is invisible to you.

The secure socket API is used by applications to secure traffic. The API needs to allow the application to open, listen, and close secure sockets. The binding between the application and the secure socket layer also allows the secure socket layer to inform the application of changes to the socket, such as connection open and close events. The secure socket API is able to identify the socket; that is, it can identify the local and remote addresses, masks, ports, and protocol that carry the traffic requiring security.

Once you have configured OSPFv3 and decided on your authentication, you must define the security policy on each of the devices within the group. The security policy consists of the combination of the key and the SPI. To define a security policy, you must define an SPI and a key.

You can configure an authentication or encryption policy either on an interface or for an OSPFv3 area. When you configure for an area, the security policy is applied to all of the interfaces in the area. For higher security, use a different policy on each interface.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.146
R1(config-if)# ipv6 ospf authentication ipsec spi 500 md5 PASSWORD
R1(config-if)# exit
```
```
R1(config)# ipv6 router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# area 1 authentication ipsec spi 678 md5 PASSWORD
R1(config-router)# exit
```
