---
name: 3.6.9.7
title: 3.6.9.7 - Stub Router Advertisement
short-title: Stub Router Advertisement
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.7.html
folder: ospf
---
The OSPF Stub Router Advertisement feature allows you to bring a new router into a network without immediately routing traffic through the new router and allows you to gracefully shut down or reload a router without dropping packets that are destined for other networks. This feature introduces three configuration options that allow you to configure a router that is running the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) protocol to advertise a maximum or infinite metric to all neighbors.

When any of these three configuration options are enabled on a router, the router will originate link-state advertisements (LSAs) with a maximum metric (LSInfinity: 0xFFFF) through all nonstub links. The advertisement of a maximum metric causes other routers to assign a cost to the new router that is higher than the cost of using an alternate path. Because of the high cost assigned to paths that pass through the new router, other routers will not use a path through the new router as a transit path to forward traffic that is destined for other networks, which allows switching and routing functions to be up and running and routing tables to converge before transit traffic is routed through this router.

Two of the options deal with startup and the other deals with shutdown.

Two configuration options introduced by the OSPF Stub Router Advertisement feature allow you to bring a new router into a network without immediately routing traffic through the new router. These configuration options are useful because Interior Gateway Protocols (IGPs) converge very quickly upon a router during startup or after a reload, often before Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routing tables have completely converged. If neighbor routers forward traffic through a router while that router is building BGP routing tables, packets that have been received for other destinations may be dropped. Advertising a maximum metric during startup will allow routing tables to converge before traffic that is destined for other networks is sent through the router. The following two configuration options enable a router to advertise a maximum metric at startup:

You can configure a timer to advertise a maximum metric when the router is started or reloaded. When this option is configured, the router will advertise a maximum metric, which forces neighbor routers to select alternate paths until the timer expires. When the timer expires, the router will advertise accurate (normal) metrics, and other routers will send traffic to this router depending on the cost. The configurable range of the timer is from 5 to 86,400 seconds.
You can configure a router to advertise a maximum metric at startup until BGP routing tables converge or until the default timer expires (600 seconds). Once BGP routing tables converge or the default timer expires, the router will advertise accurate (normal) metrics and other routers will send traffic to this router, depending on the cost.

The third configuration option introduced by the OSPF Stub Router Advertisement feature allows you to gracefully remove a router from the network by advertising a maximum metric through all links, which allows other routers to select alternate paths for transit traffic to follow before the router is shut down. There are many situations where you may need to remove a router from the network. If a router is removed from a network and neighbor routers cannot detect that the physical interface is down, neighbors will need to wait for dead timers to expire before the neighbors will remove the adjacency and routing tables will reconverge. This situation may occur when there is a switch between other routers and the router that is shut down. Packets may be dropped while the neighbor routing tables reconverge.

When this third option is configured, the router advertises a maximum metric, which allows neighbor routers to select alternate paths before the router is shut down. This configuration option could also be used to remove a router that is in a critical condition from the network without affecting traffic that is destined for other networks.

#### Configuring Advertisement on Startup
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# max-metric router-lsa-on-startup 360
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The above would configure OSPF to advertise a maximum metric during startup for 360 seconds.

#### Configuring Advertisement until Routing Tables Converge
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# max-metric router-lsa-on-startup wait-for-bgp
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The above configures OSPF to advertise a maximum metric until BGP routing tables have converged or until the default timer has expired. The default timer value is 600 seconds.

#### Configuring Advertisement Until Graceful Shutdown
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# max-metric router-lsa
R1(config-router)# exit
```
This will configure OSPF to advertise a maximum metric until the router is shut down.
