---
name: 3.6.6.3
title: 3.6.6.3 - Not-So-Stubby Areas
short-title: Not-So-Stubby Areas
category: 3.6.6 OSPF Stub Areas
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.6.3.html
folder: ospf
---
The OSPF NSSA Option, as defined by RFC 3101, extends the functionality of a stub area to allow the importing of a subset of external routes into the area. With stub areas Type-5 External LSA is suppressed from entering the database and is replaced with a default route originated by the ABR. Because all Type-5 LSAs are suppressed, this means that redistribution cannot occur within the area as well. The NSSA option alters this behavior by allowing redistribution to occur within the stub area, while still blocking external routes from entering the area through the ABR(s). So it allows you to redistribute into the stub area, but external routes that were redistributed into other areas are still not allowed to enter the area. This is implemented through a new link-state advertisement, the Type-7 NSSA External LSA.

Like Type-5 External LSAs, two subtypes of Type-7 NSSA External LSAs exist, type 1 (N1) and type 2 (N2). N1, similar to E1, considers the metric that the ASBR reports into the OSPF domain along with the metric needed to reach the ASBR. N2, similar to E2, separates the metric into the flat value that the ASBR reports into the OSPF domain, which is installed in the routing table, and the value needed to reach the ASBR, known as the forwarding metric. The default metric type is Type 2 (N2).

When the Type-7 NSSA External LSA is received by the NSSA area's ABR and moved into area 0, the information contained in the Type-7 LSA is translated to a normal Type-5 External LSA. If multiple ABRs exist, only one of them performs the translation - the one translating is chosen via an election process. In this way, OSPF devices outside of the NSSA do not know that the NSSA exists, which is analogous to how a Confederation works in BGP.

Similar to the stub area, the NSSA flag must be agreed upon by all devices in the area, or adjacency cannot occur. Like a stub area, Type-5 external LSAs are blocked from entering the NSSA area on the ABR. However, unlike a stub area with the NSSA, the ABR does not automatically originate a Type-3 Summary Route with a default route. This means that by default NSSA devices will have reachability to their own area and to other areas, but not to destinations outside of the OSPF autonomous system.

The configuration is straightforward.

```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# area 3 nssa
R1(config-router)# exit
```
