---
name: 3.6.1.1
title: 3.6.1.1 - Network Statement
short-title: Network Statement
category: 3.6 OSPF Initialization
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.1.1.html
folder: ospf
---
OSPF is enabled on the entire router by use of the **router ospf 1** command. The 1 here, unlike EIGRP, does not represent an AS but instead is a process number local to the router. There can be multiple OSPF processes running per router.

Once OSPF is enabled globally, we must now tell the OSPF process which interfaces to activate. The OSPF **network** statement works very similar as with EIGRP. The network statement tells OSPF on which interfaces of the router should the OSPF process be enabled. It uses the familiar IP address and dotted wildcard mask notation. It is used in router configuration mode.

Remember as with EIGRP, the **network** statement is not used to originate a network advertisement. This means that is you have an interface that is addressed as 192.168.0.1/24 and you enter a network statement of **network 192.168.0.1 0.0.0.0**, the route 192.168.0.1/32 will not be originated. OSPF will be activated on any interfaces having subnets matched by the network statement, then the subnets for that interface will be originated by OSPF (192.168.0.0/24 in this case).

When an interface is activated by a **network** statement as compared to an **ip ospf 1 area 0** interface command, there are two differences.

First, if an interface is unnumbered, and there is a **network** statement that matches the IP address of the primary interface, both the primary interface and the unnumbered interface will have OSPF enabled on them in the designated area.

Second, when enabled at the interface level, by default OSPF will inject both primary and secondary subnets of the interface in the OSPF database and advertise both to its neighbors. If you wish to suppress the secondary subnet, use the following configuration.
```
`R1(config-if)# ip ospf 1 area 0
R1(config-if)# ip ospf 1 area 0 secondaries none
```
`
