---
name: 3.6.2.3
title: 3.6.2.3 - OSPF DR/BDR Election Manipulation
short-title: OSPF DR/BDR Election Manipulation
category: 3.6.3 OSPF Network Types
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.2.3.html
folder: ospf
---
DRs were incorporated into OSPF to solve two issues:
- the formation of adjacencies between every attached router would create many unnecessary LSAs. If there are n routers there would be n(n-1)/2 adjacencies and each router would flood n-1 LSAs, plus 1 LSA for the network, resulting in n^2 LSAs
- flooding would be ridiculous and there would exist multiple copies of the same LSA on the network at any given time.

The Designated Router thus has two responsibilities on a multi-access network.
- Represent the multi-access network and its attached routers to the rest of the OSPF area
- Manage the flooding process on the multi-access network

The broadcast link itself is considered a *pseudonode* or a virtual router. The cost from an attached router to the pseudonode is the outgoing cost of that router's interface to the broadcast link, but the cost from the pseudonode to any attached router is 0. The DR represents the pseudonode by originating a special Network LSA. DR is a property of a router's interface, not the entire router.

Each router on the network forms an adjacency with the DR. If the DR were to fail for any reason, a new DR would have to be elected and then adjacencies and LSA exchange would have to occur before the network would be operational again. To prevent this potential downtime a Backup Designated Router is also elected on every broadcast segment. All routers on the network form an adjacency with the BDR as well as with the DR.

DR/BDR election is based on two items. Router Priority is the configurable item via the interface command **ip ospf priority**. However, priority is not preemptive to routers that have already been elected as DR/BDR. So the point at which a router becomes active on the multi-access network also affects DR/BDR election. The BDR is elected first and if there is no DR it is then promoted to DR and a new election for the BDR occurs. If you set a router's interface ospf priority to 0, that makes the interface ineligible to become a DR or BDR and this action *is* preemptive. Otherwise, with the default WAIT timer setting, the DR/BDR election process is non-preemptive. The tiebreaker if priority is equal among two or more router candidates is highest Router ID.

If there are no routers on the multi-access network that are eligible to become DR, then no adjacencies will form and the state of all routers will remain two-way.

The DR/BDR does not modify the next-hop value in LSAs it re-floods.

DRothers stop at the 2-Way state with other DRothers.
