---
name: 3.6.6.6
title: 3.6.6.6 - Stub Areas with Multiple Exit Points
short-title: Stub Areas with Multiple Exit Points
category: 3.6.6 OSPF Stub Areas
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.6.6.html
folder: ospf
---
You can use stub areas for inter-area traffic engineering. If there are multiple ABRs, you can configure different configurations on those ABRs to control what type of traffic exits out of a particular ABR. For instance, if you set one ABR to be an Not-So-Totally-Stubby Area, then that ABR will inject a Type-3 Summary default route into the area. But if you configured another ABR as a normal NSSA ABR, then that ABR will advertise long matching inter-area routes into the area, so inter-area traffic would follow that ABR while default traffic would follow the previously configured Not-So-Totally-Stubby ABR.

OSPF always prefers routes in this order:
1. intra-area
2. inter-area
3. external_url
4. nssa-external

If you have two ABRs that are exit points to a stub area, and they both have the same cost to reach, then by default CEF will load balance over both paths with ECMP. If you do not want this behavior, you have two choices.
1. Leak routes so that longest match routing takes precedence. You would do this by setting one of the ABRs as totally stubby and the other as just a stub.
2. Change the area default cost for the ABR ( will affect all routes). You change this on the next-hop ABR.
3. Change the cost on the link on the ABR ( will affect all routes )

You can use **show ip ospf border-routers** to see if ABRs do in fact have the same cost. To see which way CEF will send the traffic use **show ip cef exact-route**.
