---
name: 3.6.3.5
title: 3.6.3.5 - Non-Backbone Transit Areas
short-title: Non-Backbone Transit Areas
category: 3.6.3 OSPF Path Selection
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.3.5.html
folder: ospf
---
### Overview
**Transit Capability** is a special property of a non-backbone area that allows the area to transport traffic for other areas (either zero or non-zero). Per the OSPF definition, a transit area is the area that has a virtual-link connecting two or more ABRs attached to this area. Thus, having a virtual-link provisioned across the area is the necessary thing to make the area transit. In fact, it’s just an alternate definition of a transit area.

In OSPF, the backbone area is used to exchange routing information in a distance-vector manner, requiring the star topology to avoid routing loops. Per the RFC, a router is only considered an ABR if it has an interface in Area 0 and ignores summary LSAs delivered across non-backbone areas.

When you configure virtual links, you specify the transit area and the endpoint Router IDs. After the hello packets are exchanged and the adjacency comes up, it is treated as a point-to-point network and OSPF LSAs are exchanged. The virtual link is seen by OSPF as belonging to area 0.

But only Router, Network, and Summary LSAs are flooded across the virtual link. In OSPFv1 and before *transit capability* support in OSPFv2, all prefixes learned across the virtual link were populated into the routing table with a metric equal to the cost to reach the far end ABR across the virtual link, plus that ABRs cost to reach the prefix. Traffic to the subnet would then follow that exact path, with traffic for routes learned across the virtual link always having the virtual link as its egress path. But this often caused suboptimal routing as perhaps there was a shorter path that didn't go across the virtual link (and therefore through the area 0 backbone).

OSPFv2 instead uses the inter-area routes received via the non-backbone area as a source of better information. So if an inter-area prefix provides a better route than the data path across the virtual link, they can be used in place of the path across the virtual link. This holds true for two cases:
- inter-area prefixes injected from non-backbone areas
- intra-area routes found in Area 0 itself

How does OSPFv2 detect if an area has transit capability? It is pretty easy. If an ABR detects that is has a fully adjacent virtual link coming from Area A, it floods all of its router LSAs into the area with a special "V" bit set. All routers in Area A will see that V bit, and learn that the area is effectively supporting the transit feature.

{% include image.html file="ospf-transit-capability.png" %}

#### OSPFv2 Transit Capability for Inter-area Routes
In OSPFv2, if an area is marked as transit, then an ABR with a virtual link to the backbone will take into account that the area is transit when calculating its route to a particular prefix. In OSPFv1, if the ABR had a virtual link then traffic followed the virtual link even if there was a direct path through another area. However this will not work if you use summarization as there would no longer be an exact match for the prefix, and OSPF cannot use them for path optimization.

#### Intra-area routes in Area 0
If the ABRs have *transit capability* enabled, then an ABR will look at inter-area LSAs in the transit area for a better route to a prefix, even over an intra-area route in Area 0! This only works for Area 0 intra-area routes, and not for any other area.

You will see the summary LSAs available with transit capability enabled. In this example, the virtual-link was created across Area 1. If you look at the summary LSAs (Type 3) from another router in Area 1, you would see something like this along with the Area 0 summary (if an ABR).
```
R4#sh ip ospf database summary 155.1.37.0

		Summary Net Link States (Area 1)

  LS age: 1197
  Options: (No TOS-capability, DC, Upward)
  LS Type: Summary Links(Network)
  Link State ID: 155.1.37.0 (summary Network Number)
  Advertising Router: 150.1.6.6
  LS Seq Number: 80000002
  Checksum: 0x6E66
  Length: 28
  Network Mask: /24
	MTID: 0 	Metric: 2
```
This example shows a Type 3 LSA from an Area 2 network. Normally, without transit capability, the only LSA for the network would be the Area 0 Type 3 LSA. But with transit capability, the Area 1 router has a path through Area 1 to the Area 2 155.1.37.0 network.

If you disable transit capability, you will no longer see the summary LSA in the transit area. To disable transit capability, use the below command:
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# no capability transit
R1(config-router)# end
```

Another gotcha with virtual links and transit areas. The ABRs in the transit area will also generate Type 3 summary LSAs for networks that can be reached via the transit area. So you may establish a virtual link between two ABRs and make Area 1 a transit area. If there is another ABR attached to area 1 and say area 5, then that ABR will generate a Type 3 Summary LSA for networks accessible via the transit area.
### Summary
We outlined the idea of the Transit Capability found in OSPFv2 and not present in OSPFv1. The key idea is that the inter-area routes found in a transit area could be used to optimize the routing paths instead of simply following the paths carved by the virtual links (OSPFv1). We found that:

1. This procedure optimizes the paths for inter-area routes and backbone intra-area routes.
2. This procedure blocks Area 0 prefix summarization to prevent routing loops.
3. This behavior is different from the one used in OSPFv1, which was transiting across the virtual-link paths.

This was taken from the INE blog [here](http://blog.ine.com/2009/09/14/understanding-ospf-transit-capability/).
