---
name: 3.6.4.7
title: 3.6.4.7 - SHA1-196
short-title: SHA1-196
category: 3.6.4 OSPF Authentication
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.4.7.html
folder: ospf
---
OSPF does not support key chains with plain text or MD5 authentication. However, for SHA1-196 cryptographic authentication, key-chains are required.

The OSPFv2 Cryptographic Authentication feature allows you to configure a key chain on the OSPF interface to authenticate OSPFv2 packets by using HMAC-SHA algorithms. You can use an existing key chain that is being used by another protocol, or you can create a key chain specifically for OSPFv2.

HMAC-SHA-1 uses the first version of SHA, while all other methods use SHA-2, the second version of the function.

So far, IOS does not allow you to enable SHA authentication at the area level, only at the interface level. Also, it is not supported for virtual links.

```
R1(config)# key chain INE
R1(config-keychain)# key 1
R1(config-keychain-key)# key-string CISCO
R1(config-keychain-key)# cryptographic-algorithm hmac-sha-256
R1(config-keychain-key)# send-lifetime local 10:00:00 5 July 2013 infinite
R1(config-keychain-key)# end
```
You would then enable the key authentication on needed interfaces.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/0
R1(config-if)# ip ospf authentication key-chain INE
R1(config-if)# exit
```
You can then verify by looking at the ip ospf interface.

<pre><code>R9(config-keychain-key)#do sho ip ospf int gig0/1.79
GigabitEthernet0/1.79 is up, line protocol is up
  Internet Address 155.1.79.9/24, Area 2, Attached via Network Statement
  Process ID 1, Router ID 150.1.9.9, Network Type BROADCAST, Cost: 1
  Topology-MTID    Cost    Disabled    Shutdown      Topology Name
        0           1         no          no            Base
  Transmit Delay is 1 sec, State DR, Priority 1
  Designated Router (ID) 150.1.9.9, Interface address 155.1.79.9
  Backup Designated router (ID) 150.1.7.7, Interface address 155.1.79.7
  Timer intervals configured, Hello 10, Dead 40, Wait 40, Retransmit 5
    oob-resync timeout 40
    Hello due in 00:00:05
  Supports Link-local Signaling (LLS)
  Cisco NSF helper support enabled
  IETF NSF helper support enabled
  Index 1/2/2, flood queue length 0
  Next 0x0(0)/0x0(0)/0x0(0)
  Last flood scan length is 1, maximum is 5
  Last flood scan time is 2 msec, maximum is 35 msec
  Neighbor Count is 1, Adjacent neighbor count is 1
    Adjacent with neighbor 150.1.7.7  (Backup Designated Router)
  Suppress hello for 0 neighbor(s)
  <b>Cryptographic authentication enabled
    Sending SA: Key 1, Algorithm HMAC-SHA-256 - key chain TEST</b>
</code></pre>
