---
name: 3.6.9.4
title: 3.6.9.4 - LSA & SPF Pacing
short-title: LSA & SPF Pacing
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.4.html
folder: ospf
---
#### LSA Group
LSAs are regenerated every 30 minutes by default as part of the "paranoid" LSA refresh policy. This can easily lead to synchronization with an immense amount of flooding every 30 minutes, followed by 30 minutes of relatively quiet network control protocol traffic. LSA pacing is the idea of spreading the LSA regeneration process out among routers so that there are shorter bursts of LSA flooding in the network. This is controlled with the **timers pacing lsa-group** command. The idea is you specify an interval and then the router checks for any LSAs that are within 30 minutes - interval of needing refreshed and then floods the refreshed LSAs for those within the interval only. The default value is 240 seconds.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# timers pacing lsa-group 300
R1(config-router)# exit
```

#### Flood
The flood pacing timer operates on a per-interface basis; it applies only if a router has more than a single LSA to be flooded out an individual interface.   The way it works is that if a router has a large number of LSAs to be flooded out an interface, the timer will prevent flooding the LSAs immediately one after the other one. Instead, it’s added to the flooding list. Then after 33 milliseconds (default packet-pacing timer), the LSAs included in the list are flooded.

To configure the OSPF flood packet-pacing timer use the **timers pacing flood \{milliseconds\}** OSPF process command.

#### Retransmission
This timer works the same way as group packet-pacing timer, but only takes care of the unacknowledged LSAs.   In other words, if an LSAck is not received, the LSA is placed in a flooding list instead flooding the LSA at once.   The default timer in Cisco implementations is 66 milliseconds.

To configure the OSPF flood packet-pacing timer use the **timers pacing retransmission \{milliseconds\}** OSPF process command.
