---
name: 3.6.9.5
title: 3.6.9.5 - Single Hop LFA / IP FRR
short-title: Single Hop LFA / IP FRR
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.5.html
folder: ospf
---
#### Overview
The OSPFv2 Loop-Free Alternate Fast Reroute feature uses a precomputed alternate next hop to reduce failure reaction time when the primary next hop fails. It lets you configure a per-prefix loop-free alternate (LFA) path that redirects traffic to a next hop other than the primary neighbor. The forwarding decision is made and service is restored without other routers’ knowledge of the failure.

#### Restrictions
The OSPFv2 Loop-Free Alternate Fast Reroute feature is not supported on routers that are virtual links headends.

The OSPFv2 Loop-Free Alternate Fast Reroute feature is supported only in global VPN routing and forwarding (VRF) OSPF instances.

You cannot configure a traffic engineering (TE) tunnel interface as a protected interface. Use the MPLS Traffic Engineering--Fast Reroute Link and Node Protection feature to protect these tunnels. See the “MPLS Traffic Engineering--Fast Reroute Link and Node Protection” section in the Cisco IOS XE Multiprotocol Label Switching Configuration Guide for more information.

You can configure a TE tunnel interface in a repair path, but OSPF will not verify the tunnel’s placement; you must ensure that it is not crossing the physical interface it is intended to protect.

Not all routes can have repair paths. Multipath primary routes might have repair paths for all, some, or no primary paths, depending on network topology, the connectivity of the computing router, and the attributes required of repair paths.

#### LFA Repair Paths
The figure below shows how the OSPFv2 Loop-Free Alternate Fast Reroute feature reroutes traffic if a link fails. A protecting router precomputes per-prefix repair paths and installs them in the global Routing Information Base (RIB). When the protected primary path fails, the protecting router diverts live traffic from the primary path to the stored repair path, without other routers’ having to recompute network topology or even be aware that the network topology has changed.

{% include image.html file="lfa.jpg" %}

When a primary path fails, many paths are possible repair candidates. The OSPFv2 Loop-Free Alternate Fast Reroute feature default selection policy prioritizes attributes in the following order:
1. srlg
2. primary-path
3. interface-disjoint
4. lowest-metric
5. linecard-disjoint
6. node-protecting
7. broadcast-interface-disjoint

If the evaluation does not select any candidate, the repair path is selected by implicit load balancing. This means that repair path selection varies depending on prefix.

You can use the **show ip ospf fast-reroute** command to display the current configuration.

You can use the **fast-reroute tie-break** command to configure one or more of the repair-path attributes described in the following sections to select among the candidates.

##### Shared Risk Link Groups
A shared risk link group (SRLG) is a group of next-hop interfaces of repair and protected primary paths that have a high likelihood of failing simultaneously. The OSPFv2 Loop-Free Alternate Fast Reroute feature supports only SRLGs that are locally configured on the computing router. VLANs on a single physical interface are an example of an SRLG. If the physical interface fails, all the VLAN interfaces will fail at the same time. The default repair-path attributes might result in the primary path on one VLAN being protected by a repair path over another VLAN. You can configure the srlg attribute to specify that LFA repair paths do not share the same SRLG ID as the primary path. Use the **srlg** command to assign an interface to an SRLG.

##### Interface Protection
Point-to-point interfaces have no alternate next hop for rerouting if the primary gateway fails. You can set the interface-disjoint attribute to prevent selection of such repair paths, thus protecting the interface.

##### Broadcast Interface Protection
LFA repair paths protect links when a repair path and a protected primary path use different next-hop interfaces. However, on broadcast interfaces, if the LFA repair path is computed via the same interface as the primary path, but their next-hop gateways are different, the node is protected but the link might not be. You can set the broadcast-interface-disjoint attribute to specify that the repair path never crosses the broadcast network the primary path points to; that is, it cannot use the interface and the broadcast network connected to it.

##### Node Protection
The default repair-path attributes might not protect the router that is the next hop in a primary path. You can configure the node-protecting attribute to specify that the repair path will bypass the primary-path gateway router.

##### Downstream Path
In the case of a high-level network failure or multiple simultaneous network failures, traffic sent over an alternate path might loop until OSPF recomputes the primary paths. You can configure the downstream attribute to specify that the metric of any repair path to the protected destination must be lower than that of the protecting node to the destination. This might result in lost traffic but it prevents looping.

##### Line-Card Disjoint Interfaces
Line-card interfaces are similar to SRLGs because all interfaces on the same line card will fail at the same time if there is a problem with the line card, for example, line card online insertion and removal (OIR). You can configure the linecard-disjoint attribute to specify that LFA repair paths use different interfaces than those on the primary-path line card.

##### Metric
An LFA repair path need not be the most efficient of the candidates. A high-cost repair path might be considered more attractive if it provides protection against higher-level network failures. You can configure the metric attribute to specify a repair-path policy that has the lowest metric.

##### Equal-Cost Multipath Primary Paths
Equal-cost multipath paths (ECMPs) found during the primary shortest path first (SPF) repair, might not be desirable in network designs where traffic is known to exceed the capacity of any single link. You can configure the primary-path attribute to specify an LFA repair path from the ECMP set, or the secondary-path attribute to specify an LFA repair path that is not from the ECMP set.

#### Candidate Repair-Path Lists
When OSPF computes a repair path, it keeps in the local RIB only the best from among all the candidate paths, in order to conserve memory. You can use the **fast-reroute keep-all-paths** command to create a list of all the candidate repair paths that were considered. This information can be useful for troubleshooting but it can greatly increase memory consumption so it should be reserved for testing and debugging.

#### Configuration

##### Enabling Per-Prefix LFA
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# fast-reroute per-prefix enable prefix-priority low
R1(config-router)# exit
```
Low priority specifies that all prefixes have the same eligibility for protection. High priority specifies that only high-priority prefixes are protected.

##### Specifying Prefixes to be Protected by LFA FRR
We can use a route-map to specify which prefixes will be protected by LFA FRR and what the priority should be for those matched with the route map.
```
R1(config)# ip prefix list MATCH_PROTECTED seq 5 permit 155.1.146.0/24
R1(config)# route-map PROTECTED permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address prefix-list MATCH_PROTECTED
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# prefix-priority high route-map PROTECTED
```

##### Configure a Repair Path Selection Policy
We can use the following to specify a tiebreaker condition.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# fast-reroute tie-break srlg required index 10
R1(config-router)# exit
```
This sets the tiebreaker condition and sets its priority level.

##### Creating a List of Repair Paths Considered
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# fast-reroute keep-all-paths
R1(config-router)# exit
```

##### Prohibiting an Interface from Being Used as the Next Hop
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.146
R1(config-if)# ip ospf fast-reroute per-prefix candidate disable
R1(config-if)# exit
```
