---
name: 3.6.3.2
title: 3.6.3.2 - Cost
short-title: Cost
category: 3.6.3 OSPF Path Selection
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.3.2.html
folder: ospf
---
The formula for OSPF cost in the Cisco world is $$ COST = \frac{REFERENCEBW}{INTERFACEBW}$$. The default reference bandwidth is $$10^8$$ but can be changed with the **auto-cost reference-bandwidth** router command we saw earlier.

OSPF calculates cost based on the outgoing interface cost from the router doing the SPF calculation (root) to the destination.

You can alter cost on a per interface basis with the **ip ospf cost** command.
```
R1(config)# interface Tunnel0
R1(config-if)# ip ospf 1 area 0
R1(config-if)# ip ospf cost 5
```

With the Point-to-Multipoint network type, you can also change the cost on a per neighbor basis.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.10.10.0 cost 5
R1(config-router)# exit
```

Cisco IOS deviates slightly from the OSPF standards. These are the route selection rules as it applies to Cisco IOS:
- Intra-area routes are preferred over inter-area or external routes regardless of their cost (same as RFC 2328).
- Inter-area routes are preferred over external routes (same as RFC 2328).
- E1 routes are preferred over E2 routes (same as RFC 2328).
- External routes received from an intra-area ASBR should be preferred over external routes received from ASBRs in other areas. Cisco IOS ignores this rule even after configuring **no compatible rfc1583** (Section 16.4.1 of the OSPF RFC)
- When comparing E1 routes, the route metric is the external cost added to the internal cost (same as RFC 2328).
- The internal cost of an E1/E2 route is the cost between the current router and the forwarding address specified in the Type-5 LSA (or originating ASBR if the forwarding address is set to 0.0.0.0) (same as RFC 2328).
- When comparing E2 routes, only the external costs are compared (same as RFC 2328).
- If multiple E2 routes have the same external cost, the internal cost (as above) is compared (same as RFC 2328).
- NSSA (type-7 LSA) routes should be preferred over external (type-5 LSA) routes. *Cisco IOS prefers external routes over NSSA routes*.

The Final Tiebreaker appears to be the LS ID - the longer an LSA has been in the database the more preferred.

With Cisco IOS, by default equal cost load balancing occurs over a maximum of 16 paths.
