---
name: 3.6.2.8
title: 3.6.2.8 - LSA Types
short-title: LSA Types
category: 3.6.2 OSPF Network Types
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.2.8.html
folder: ospf
---
### Basics
Each OSPF router originates one or more Link State Advertisements to describe its local part of the routing domain. Each LSA is unique by the combination of three fields:
- LS Type
- Link State ID
- Advertising Routers

### LS Types

#### Type 1 Router LSA
Router LSAs are produced by every router. It lists all of a router's links in the area to which the Router LSA is flooded, the state and outgoing cost of each link, and any known OSPF neighbors on the link. The Router LSAs are only flooded within the area in which they originated.

The Link State ID in a Type 1 Router LSA is the originating router's Router ID.

The Link Type in the Router LSA describes the general type of connection the link provides. Here are their values.

| **Link Type** | **Connection** |
| 1 | Point-to-point connection to another router |
| 2 | Connection to a transit network |
| 3 | Connection to a stub network |
| 4 | Virtual Link |

The Metric field represents the cost of the link (interface)

To see the Router LSA, use the **show ip ospf database router** command.

#### Type 2 Network LSA
These LSAs are produced by the DR on every multi-access network. The Network LSA lists all attached routers, including the DR itself. Network LSAs are only flooded within the area in which they were originated. There is no metric field in the LSA as the cost from the pseudonode to any attached router is always 0. The Network LSA will list the subnet of the multi-access network.

The Link State ID for Network LSAs is the IP address of the DR's interface to the network.

The main purpose of a Type-2 LSA is to reduce redundant information in the database. Instead of representing the network as a full mesh, we represent it as a star topology with the DR in the middle.

To see the Network LSA, use the **show ip ospf database network** command.

#### Type 3 Network Summary LSA
Network Summary LSAs are sent into a single area to advertise destinations outside that area. These LSAs are the means by which an ABR can tell the internal routers of an attached network what destinations the ABR can reach. There are 3 situations these are used:
- the standard case in which an ABR advertises to an internal network available destinations outside the area
- the ABR also advertises the destinations within its attached areas into the Backbone
- Default routes, external to the area but internal to the OSPF Autonomous System, are also advertised by a Network Summary LSA

The ABR will originate a single Network Summary LSA for each destination even if it knows of multiple routes to the destination. This works in both directions - into the attached area and for LSAs originated into the backbone.

When another router receives a Network Summary LSA from an ABR, it does not run the SPF algorithm but instead just simply adds the cost of the route to the ABR and the cost included in the LSA to generate the metric. This is distance-vector behavior!

The Link State ID for a Type 3 Network Summary LSA is the IP address of the subnet being advertised. If a Type 3 LSA is advertising a default route, the Link State ID (and network mask) will be 0.0.0.0.

The **Network Mask** field of the Type 3 LSA is the subnet mask of the Type 3 LSA.

A Type-3 LSA is flooded from area 0 into non-backbone areas and vice versa.

To see the Network Summary LSA, use the **show ip ospf database summary** command.

#### Type 4 ASBR Summary LSA
ASBR Summary LSAs are also generated by ABRs. They are identical to Network Summary LSAs except that the destination they advertise is an ASBR, not a network. The destination is the LSA is a host address with a zero mask.

The Link State ID for a Type 4 ASBR Summary LSA is the Router ID of the ASBR being advertised.

The purpose of the Type-4 LSA is similar to the purpose of the Type-3 LSA - it allows an area router to be able to reach a device in another area without having to calculate its path via SPF.

To see the ASBR Summary LSA, use the **show ip ospf database asbr-summary** command.

#### Type 5 Autonomous System External LSA
AS External LSAs are originated by ASBRs and advertise a destination external to the OSPF system. AS External LSAs are the only LSA type in the database that are not associated with a particular area. These LSAs are flooded throughout the autonomous system.

The **Link State ID** of a Type 5 LSA is the IP address of the destination.

The **E bit** represents the type of external metric to be used with this route. If the E-bit = 0 the metric type is $$E_1$$. If the E-bit = 1, the metric is $$E_2$$.

The **Metric** is the cost of the route, as set by the ASBR.

The **Forwarding Address** is the address to which packets for the advertised destination should be sent. If the forwarding address is 0.0.0.0 then packets should be forwarded to the originating ASBR.

The **External Route Tag** is an arbitrary tag that may be applied to the external route. it is not used by OSPF, but is instead for external route management.

Intra-area external routes will not have a Type-4 LSA to learn how to get to the ASBR because they already know how to get to the ASBR because it is in their own area.

To see the Autonomous System External LSAs, use the **show ip ospf database external** command.


#### Type 6 Group Membership LSA
These are not really in use and therefore not discussed.

#### Type 7 NSSA External LSA
NSSA External LSAs are originated by ASBRs within Not-So-Stubby Areas. They are almost identical to the AS External Type 5 LSA, but they are only flooded throughout the NSSA.

The **Forwarding Address** field is different than the Type 5 LSA. If the network between the NSSA ASBR and the adjacent autonomous system is advertised as an internal route, then the forwarding address is set to the next hop address on the network. If the network is not advertised as an internal route, the forwarding address will be the NSSA ASBR's Router ID.

To see the NSSA External LSA, use the **show ip ospf database nssa-external** command.
