---
name: 3.6.9.3
title: 3.6.9.3 - LSA & SPF Throttling
short-title: LSA & SPF Throttling
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.3.html
folder: ospf
---
#### LSA Throttling
The OSPF Link-State Advertisement (LSA) Throttling feature provides a dynamic mechanism to slow down link-state advertisement (LSA) updates in OSPF during times of network instability. It also allows faster Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) convergence by providing LSA rate limiting in milliseconds.

Prior to the OSPF LSA Throttling feature, LSA generation was rate-limited for 5 seconds. That meant that changes in an LSA could not be propagated in milliseconds, so the OSPF network could not achieve millisecond convergence.

The OSPF LSA Throttling feature is enabled by default and allows faster OSPF convergence (in milliseconds). This feature can be customized. One command controls the generation (sending) of LSAs and another command controls the receiving interval. This feature also provides a dynamic mechanism to slow down the frequency of LSA updates in OSPF during times of network instability.

The **timers throttle lsa all** command controls the generation (sending) of LSAs. The first LSA is always generated immediately upon an OSPF topology change, and the next LSA generated is controlled by the minimum start interval. The subsequent LSAs generated for the same LSA are rate-limited until the maximum interval is reached. The "same LSA" is defined as an LSA instance that contains the same LSA ID number, LSA type, and advertising router ID.

The **timers lsa arrival** command controls the minimum interval for accepting the same LSA. If an instance of the same LSA arrives sooner than the interval that is set, the LSA is dropped. It is recommended that the arrival interval be less than or equal to the hold-time interval of the **timers throttle lsa all** command.

<pre><code>R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# timers throttle lsa all <i>start-interval hold-interval max-interval</i>
R1(config-router)# timers lsa arrival <i>milliseconds</i>
R1(config-router)# end
</code></pre>

The default values for timers throttle are:
- *start-interval* is 0 milliseconds
- *hold-interval* is 5000 milliseconds
- *max-interval* is 5000 milliseconds

These defaults would be seen under the **show ip ospf** command.

#### SPF Throttling
The OSPF Shortest Path First Throttling feature makes it possible to configure SPF scheduling in millisecond intervals and to potentially delay shortest path first (SPF) calculations during network instability. SPF is scheduled to calculate the Shortest Path Tree (SPT) when there is a change in topology. One SPF run may include multiple topology change events.

The interval at which the SPF calculations occur is chosen dynamically and is based on the frequency of topology changes in the network. The chosen interval is within the boundary of the user-specified value ranges. If network topology is unstable, SPF throttling calculates SPF scheduling intervals to be longer until topology becomes stable.

SPF calculations occur at the interval set by the **timers throttle spf** command. The wait interval indicates the amount of time to wait until the next SPF calculation occurs. Each wait interval after that calculation is twice as long as the previous one until the wait interval reaches the maximum wait time specified.

The SPF timing can be better explained using an example. In this example the start interval is set at 5 milliseconds (ms), the wait interval at 1000 milliseconds, and the maximum wait time is set at 90,000 milliseconds.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# timers throttle spf 5 1000 90000
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The options, in order, are spf-start, spf-hold, and spf-max-weight.

This timer throttles the SPF algorithm, if there is a flapping link or something causing a lot of LSAs being sent and requiring SPF to run this can affect performance of CPU. When the first LSA arrives the timer will run SPF after spf-start msecs. If there is another event within spf-hold the timer will be doubled. If another event occurs inside this hold-time the timer is once again doubled, it is an exponential timer. Spf-max-wait makes sure there is a roof so that the timer is not set to high. If there are no events for 2 times the max-wait the timer will revert back to spf-start.

#### Miscellaneous
There are two other interface level commands that can be used to affect LSA and SPF transmission.

**ip ospf transmit-delay seconds** is an interface command. Estimate of time needed to send a link-state update over a link. Should only matter on really low bandwidth links. LSAs that are sent will have their age incremented by the amount this command specifies before being sent.

**ip ospf retransmit-interval seconds** dictates how long to wait before retransmitting unacknowledged LSAs.
