---
name: 3.6.2.5
title: 3.6.2.5 - OSPF Point-to-Multipoint Network
short-title: OSPF Broadcast Network
category: 3.6.2 OSPF Point-to-Multipoint Types
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.2.5.html
folder: ospf
---
The Point-to-Multipoint model can be applied to any network that the NBMA model can be used on. The difference is that the Point-to-Multipoint model drops the requirement that all routers on the subnet be able to communicate directly. Its operation is similar to if each connection was treated as a serial line, or viewed as a collection of P2P links. Its robustness compared to the NBMA network type is that failures can be limited in scope to connection pairs - the failure of a PVC connecting two routers will have no effect on the stability of the rest of the network. The Point-to-Multipoint model works very well with Demand Circuit configuration.

There are no DRs or BDRs on Point-to-Multipoint networks. The Hello protocol works to detect communication between neighbors and indicate when that communication is bidirectional. Depending on the underlying Layer 2 network type, sometimes neighborships can be formed dynamically but other times they must be configured manually.

On a Point-to-Multipoint network, each router becomes adjacent with all the routers with which it can communicate directly. Unlike the Point-to-Point model, more than two neighbors can become adjacent.

A router on a Point-to-Multipoint subnet include the following links in its router LSA:
- a point-to-point connection for each of its neighbors on the Point-to-Multipoint subnet
- a single Stub network connection to its own IP interface address

From views outside of the connected segment, the Point-to-Multipoint network is only seen as a collection of endpoints, not a transit segment itself.

The only problem with Point-to-Multipoint is that the closer the underlying network comes to having full-mesh connectivity, the less efficient Point-to-Multipoint becomes.

The Point-to-Multipoint network type is usually the best design option for partial mesh NBMA designs.

There is special next-hop processing that occurs with Point-to-Multipoint networks in OSPF. On broadcast networks, the next hop can be the router who *advertised* the route since it is assumed that any router can directly reach any other router on the broadcast network. But for point-to-multipoint, the next hop is the router that *forwarded* the advertisement.
