---
name: 3.6.9.1
title: 3.6.9.1 - Interface Timers
short-title: Interface Timers
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.1.html
folder: ospf
---
OSPF hello packets are packets that an OSPF process sends to its OSPF neighbors to maintain connectivity with those neighbors. The hello packets are sent at a configurable interval (in seconds). The defaults are 10 seconds for an Ethernet link and 30 seconds for a non broadcast link. Hello packets include a list of all neighbors for which a hello packet has been received within the dead interval. The dead interval is also a configurable interval (in seconds), and defaults to four times the value of the hello interval. The value of all hello intervals must be the same within a network. Likewise, the value of all dead intervals must be the same within a network.

These two intervals work together to maintain connectivity by indicating that the link is operational. If a router does not receive a hello packet from a neighbor within the dead interval, it will declare that neighbor to be down.

```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.146
R1(config-if)# ip ospf hello-interval 5
R1(config)# exit
```
It is important to remember that with OSPF, changing the hello-interval does change the dead-interval automatically.
```
R1#sh ip ospf int gig0/1.146
%SYS-5-CONFIG_I: Configured from console by console
R1#sh ip ospf int gig0/1.146
GigabitEthernet0/1.146 is up, line protocol is up
  Internet Address 155.1.146.1/24, Area 1, Attached via Network Statement
  Process ID 1, Router ID 150.1.1.1, Network Type BROADCAST, Cost: 1
  Topology-MTID    Cost    Disabled    Shutdown      Topology Name
        0           1         no          no            Base
  Transmit Delay is 1 sec, State DR, Priority 1
  Designated Router (ID) 150.1.1.1, Interface address 155.1.146.1
  Backup Designated router (ID) 150.1.4.4, Interface address 155.1.146.4
  Timer intervals configured, Hello 5, Dead 20, Wait 20, Retransmit 5
```
And unlike EIGRP, mismatched hello and dead-interval timers will result in adjacencies failing.
```
%OSPF-5-ADJCHG: Process 1, Nbr 150.1.6.6 on GigabitEthernet0/1.146 from FULL to DOWN, Neighbor Down: Dead timer expired
```

Another thing of concern when looking at OSPF convergence is that a router may become unreachable, but yet LSAs it generated may still exist in the OSPF database. Special care has to be taken when looking at the database for this reason. You can see in the example below, R1 (150.1.1.1) is now disconnected from the network but its router LSA still exists.

<pre><code><b>LSA ignored in SPF calculation</b>
  LS age: 1650
  Options: (V6-Bit, E-Bit, R-Bit, DC-Bit)
  LS Type: Router Links
  Link State ID: 0
  Advertising Router: 150.1.1.1
  LS Seq Number: 80000047
  Checksum: 0xE789
  Length: 40
  Number of Links: 1

    Link connected to: a Transit Network
      Link Metric: 1
      Local Interface ID: 10
      Neighbor (DR) Interface ID: 10
      Neighbor (DR) Router ID: 150.1.1.1
</code></pre>
