---
name: 3.6.11.1
title: 3.6.11.1 - OSPFv3 LSA Types
short-title: OSPFv3 LSA Types
category: 3.6.11 OSPFv3
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.11.1.html
folder: ospf
---
#### Overview
Here is a chart showing the OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 LSA types.

| OSPFv2 LSA | OSPFv3 LSA |
| Type | Name | LS Type | Name |
| 1 | Router LSA | 0x2001 | Router LSA |
| 2 | Network LSA | 0x2002 | Network LSA |
| 3 | Network Summary LSA | 0x2003 | Inter-Area Prefix LSA |
| 4 | ASBR Summary LSA | 0x2004 | Inter-Area Router LSA |
| 5 | AS-External LSA | 0x4005 | AS-External LSA |
| 6 | Group Membership LSA | 0x2006 | Group Membership LSA |
| 7 | NSSA External LSA | 0x2002 | Type-7 LSA |
| - | -  | 0x0008 | Link LSA |
| - | -  | 0x2009 | Intra-Area Prefix LSA |

Looking again at the above table of LSA types, one might note that OSPFv3 LSA numbers begin with differing numbers (for example, 0x2001 versus 0x4005). The second and third most-significant bits in an LSA number (referenced as bits S2 and S1, respectively) indicate its flooding scope:

| **S2** | **S1** | Flooding Scope |
| 0 | 0 | Link-local |
| 0 | 1 | Area |
| 1 | 0 | AS (OSPF Domain)|
| 1 | 1 | Reserved |

So all of the above that begin with 0x2 are flooded within an area. AS-External has AS flooding scope and Link LSA has link-local flooding scope.


#### Type-1 Router LSA
In OSPFv2, Router LSAs were used not only to convey information about nodes, but they also carried information about stub networks. In OSPFv3, Type-1 Router LSAs only convey information about the nodes. The main driver behind this is that in OSPFv2, when stub network information changes it requires reflooding of LSAs and a new SPF calculation. There is no need for this as the changing of stub networks attached to a node does not affect the SPT for that node. Instead, prefix information is carried in Type-9 intra-Area Prefix LSAs.
#### Type-2 Network LSA
The Network LSA is very similar to that of OSPFv2. It is originated by the DR to represent a pseudonode, and gives a 0 cost to the attched neighbors. Unlike OSPFv2, the v3 Network LSA does not have a Network Mask field.
#### Type-3 Inter-Area Prefix LSA
The name has changed in OSPFv3 from Network Summary LSA to a more descriptive Intra-Area Prefix LSA. Their function is identical to the Network Summary LSA of OSPFv2 - they are used to advertise networks that are outside the area but inside the OSPF domain.
#### Type-4 Inter-Area Router LSA
The name has changed on Type-4 LSAs as well to the more descriptive Inetr-Area ROuter LSA. An ABR originates an Inter-Area Router LSA into an area to advertise an ASBR that resides outside of the area. The ABR generates a separate Inter-Area Router LSA for each ASBR it advertises.
##### Type-5 AS-External LSA
As with OSPFv2, the AS-External LSA advertises prefixes external to the OSPF routing domain. One LSA is required for each external prefix advertised.

The E flag if set indicates a type 2 external metric, otherwise it is type 1.

The F flag when set indicates that a forwarding address is included in the LSA.

The T flag when set indicates that an external route tag is included in the LSA.
#### Type-7 LSA
From what I see, there is no difference between v2 and v3, except the name is just simple Type-7 instead of NSSA External.
#### Type-8 Link LSA
This is one of the two new LSA types for OSPFv3. It is used to convey information that only an adjacent neighbor should know about. It has link-local scope to enforce this. The Type-8 Link LSA has 3 purposes:
- it provides the originating router's link-local address to all other routers attached to the link
- it provides a list of IPv6 prefixes associated with the link
- it provides a set of Option bits to associate with Network LSAs originated on the link

These 4 Option bits are:
- Propogate bit: set on NSSA area prefixes that should be re-advertised at the NSSA border
- Multicast bit: specifies the prefix should be included in multicast routing calculations
- Local Address bit: specifies the prefix is an interface address of the advertising router
- No Unicast bit: specifies that the prefix should be excluded from unicast route calculations



#### Type-9 Intra-Area Prefix LSA
We mentioned earlier when discussing the Router LSA that OSPFv3 decouples prefix information from node information. This is in fact one of its greatest enhancements. The Intra-Area Prefix LSA can carry information about either stub or transit prefixes, and the Intra-Area Prefix LSA describes the networks association with a particular Router or Network LSA.
