---
name: 3.6.6.1
title: 3.6.6.1 - Stub Areas
short-title: Stub Areas
category: 3.6.6 OSPF Stub Areas
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.6.1.html
folder: ospf
---
A stub area is an area into which AS External LSAs are not flooded. To conserve router memory, the link-state database in stub areas is kept as small as possible. This is the only part of the OSPF autonomous system where Type 5 External LSAs are not flooded. Instead routing to external destinations is based simply on default routes originated by a stub's ABRs. As a result, ASBRs cannot be supported within stub areas (we will see about NSSA later). Stubs cannot support virtual links either and will lie at the edge of the network.

Here is the configuration needed within the OSPF process to declare an area a stub.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# area 3 stub
R1(config-router)# exit
```
You would declare an area a stub on every router in the area. Remember, one of the requirements for 2 routers to form an adjacency in OSPF is that their stub flags must match.

To summarize, when you declare an area as a stub area, the ABR ceases originating Type 4 and Type 5 LSAs into the stub area. Instead, it originates a Type 3 Summary LSA into the stub area advertising a default route. However, by default, Inter-area Type 3 Network Summary LSAs will still be originated into the stub area by the ABR.

A good candidate for a stub router configuration is one which has the same exit point for any Type-3 LSAs. If there is only one exit point, then you might as well configure the area as a stub to conserve resource.
