---
name: 3.6.9.2
title: 3.6.9.2 - Fast Hellos
short-title: Fast Hellos
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.2.html
folder: ospf
---
As we mentioned previously, the default Hello_Interval for OSPF is 10 seconds for an Ethernet or point-to-point link and 30 seconds for a non-broadcast network. The Dead_Interval defaults to 4 times the Hello_Interval, and is also configurable. The values for the Hello_Interval and the Dead_Interval must be the same throughout the OSPF network.

If a router does not receive a hello packet from a neighbor within the Dead_Interval, it will declare that neighbor to be down.

Fast Hellos refers to hello packets being sent at intervals of less than 1 second.

OSPF fast hello packets are achieved by using the **ip ospf dead-interval** command. The dead interval is set to 1 second, and the hello-multiplier value is set to the number of hello packets you want sent during that 1 second, thus providing subsecond or "fast" hello packets.

When fast hello packets are configured on the interface, the hello interval advertised in the hello packets that are sent out this interface is set to 0. The hello interval in the hello packets received over this interface is ignored.

The dead interval must be consistent on a segment, whether it is set to 1 second (for fast hello packets) or set to any other value. The hello multiplier need not be the same for the entire segment as long as at least one hello packet is sent within the dead interval.

The benefit of the OSPF Fast Hello Packets feature is that your OSPF network will experience faster convergence time than it would without fast hello packets. This feature allows you to detect lost neighbors within 1 second. It is especially useful in LAN segments, where neighbor loss might not be detected by the Open System Interconnection (OSI) physical layer and data-link layer.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.79
R1(config-if)# ip ospf dead-interval minimal hello-multiplier 5
R1(config-if)# exit
```
The above would configure 5 hello packets to be sent every second. The multiplier value does not have to match between neighbors, but there really should be no reason to configure them differently.
