---
name: 3.6.11.9
title: 3.6.11.9 - OSPFv3 TTL Security
short-title: OSPFv3 TTL Security
category: 3.6.11 OSPFv3
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.11.9.html
folder: ospf
---
The Time To Live (TTL) Security Support for Open Shortest Path First version 3 (OSPFv3) on IPv6 feature increases protection against OSPFv3 denial of service attacks.

In OSPFv3, all areas must be connected to a backbone area. If there is a break in backbone continuity, or the backbone is purposefully partitioned, you can establish a virtual link. The virtual link must be configured in the two devices you want to use to connect the partitioned backbone. The configuration information in each device consists of the other virtual endpoint (the other Area Border Router [ABR]) and the nonbackbone area that the two devices have in common (called the transit area.) Note that virtual links cannot be configured through stub areas. Sham links are similar to virtual links in many ways, but sham links are used in Layer 3 Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) VPN networks to connect provider edge (PE) routers across the MPLS backbone.

If TTL security is enabled, OSPFv3 sends outgoing packets with an IP header TTL value of 255 and discards incoming packets that have TTL values less than the configurable threshold. Because each device that forwards an IP packet decreases the TTL value, packets received via a direct (one-hop) connection will have a value of 255. Packets that cross two hops will have a value of 254, and so on. The receive threshold is configured in terms of the maximum number of hops that a packet may have traveled. The value for this hop-count argument is a number from 1 to 254, with a default of 1.

To establish a virtual link or a sham link, use the area virtual-link or area sham-link cost commands respectively. To configure TTL security on a virtual link or a sham link, configure the ttl-security keyword and the hop-count argument in either command. Note that the hop-count argument value is mandatory in this case.
```
R1(config)# ipv6 router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# area 58 virtual-link 150.1.8.8 ttl-security hops 27
R1(config-router)# exit
```
