---
name: 3.6.11.4
title: 3.6.11.4 - OSPFv3 Prefix Suppression
short-title: OSPFv3 Prefix Suppression
category: 3.6.11 OSPFv3
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.11.4.html
folder: ospf
---
The OSPFv3 Prefix Suppression Support feature allows you to hide IPv4 and IPv6 prefixes that are configured on interfaces running OSPFv3.

In OSPFv3, addressing semantics have been removed from the OSPF protocol packets and the main LSA types, leaving a network-protocol-independent core. This means that Router-LSAs and network-LSAs no longer contain network addresses, but simply express topology information. The process of hiding prefixes is simpler in OSPFv3 and *suppressed prefixes are simply removed from the intra-area-prefix-LSA*. Prefixes are also propagated in OSPFv3 via link LSAs

The OSPFv3 Prefix Suppression feature provides a number of benefits. The exclusion of certain prefixes from advertisements means that there is more memory available for LSA storage, bandwidth and buffers for LSA flooding, and CPU cycles for origination and flooding of LSAs and for SPF computation. Prefixes are also filtered from link LSAs. A device only filters locally configured prefixes, not prefixes learnt via link LSAs. In addition, security has been improved by reducing the possibility of remote attack with the hiding of transit-only networks.

Prefix suppression can be enabled under the router ospfv3 process or on a per interface basis.
```
R1(config)# router ospfv3 1
R1(config-router)# prefix-suppression
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The above would prevent OSPFv3 from advertising all IPv4 and IPv6 prefixes, except prefixes that are associated with loopbacks, secondary IP addresses, and passive interfaces. We can also perform this in interface configuration mode.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.146
R1(config-if)# ipv6 ospf prefix-suppression
R1(config-if)# ospfv3 1 prefix-suppression disable
R1(config-if)# exit
```
The two versions of the interface prefix-suppression command do the same exact thing and are both shown here for demonstration purposes only. Both interface commands take priority over the router ospfv3 prefix-suppression command.


```
