---
name: 3.6.2.1
title: 3.6.2.1 - OSPF Broadcast Network
short-title: OSPF Broadcast Network
category: 3.6.2 OSPF Network Types
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.2.1.html
folder: ospf
---
On broadcast networks, all hosts can be reached with a single sent packet. For example, sending a **ping 255.255.255.255** on an Ethernet network will quickly allow you to see which hosts will respond to an ICMP Echo.

OSPF routers on a broadcast network will elect a DR and a BDR. The following packets are sent via multicast to the AllSPFRouters destination address 224.0.0.5 (MAC 0100:5E00.0005):
- Hello packets
- All packets originated by the DR and BDR

All packets sent by the DRothers are sent to the multicast address 224.0.0.6 (MAC 0100.5E00.0006).

The underlying multi-access network is abstracted by the DR. The DR is responsible for issuing a single Type 2 Network LSA to represent the network as a pseudonode. Since the network does not have a way to represent itself, it becomes the responsibility of the DR to issue the LSA. This saves resources as the alternative would be for every connected OSPF router to generate its own Network LSA. Not only does the LSA represent the network, it is also used to indicate the sate of Database synchronization on the network. Every OSPF router whose database is synchronized with the DR is listed on the Network LSA.

The DR is basically acting to transform the meshed or broadcast design and make it a star. The DR's router interface is still represented in the Router LSA for the DR.

The Broadcast network type is the default on these multi-access broadcast medias:
- Ethernet
- Token Ring
- FDDI

If using the Broadcast network type on a DMVPN topology, you must make sure the hub router is the DR, otherwise you will not have full reachability.
