---
name: 3.6.6.8
title: 3.6.6.8 - NSSA Redistribution Filtering
short-title: NSSA Redistribution Filtering
category: 3.6.6 OSPF Stub Areas
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.6.8.html
folder: ospf
---
Remember that an NSSA area is an area that is a stub area but we allow it to redistribute external routes into the NSSA. Those external routes are redistributed into the NSSA area by the use of Type-7 NSSA External LSAs. ABRs in the NSSA by default will translate those Type-7 LSAs into Type-5 LSAs and send them into the backbone area. This is controlled by the P-bit in the LSA and it is on (1) by default. But what if we want the external link to only be known inside the NSSA area. Luckily there is an easy option within the **area nssa** command to set the P-bit to zero and prevent Type-7 to Type-5 translation.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# area 2 nssa nssa-only
R1(config-router)# exit
```
The **nssa-only** keyword changes the P-bit on the Type-7 LSA as it is being generated by the redistributing router.

You can also withdraw the P-bit by using a summary-address. Huh? The **summary-address** has the **nssa-only** keyword which you can use to ensure that there is no Type-7 to Type-5 translation. The nice thing about using summary-address is you can get granular and allow certain destinations to translate and others to not translate to Type-5 LSAs.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# summary-address 150.1.9.9 255.255.255.0 nssa-only
R1(config-router)# exit
```
With the summary-address option, it is configured on the ASBR *inside* the NSSA area that is redistributing the external routes.

We may also want to limit redistribution into the NSSA. If we make it Totally-Stubby by using the **no-summary** keyword, that would cause the ABR to no longer send Type 3 LSAs into the NSSA, so the NSSA would only know default routes to get to both external and inter-area destinations. But what if the ABR is also an ASBR? Then by default, it would generate Type-7 LSAs into the NSSA informing the NSSA of any N1 or N2 routes it is redistributing into OSPF. What if we do not want that behavior? There is a fix for that as well by an added configuration on the ABR/ASBR device.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# area 2 nssa no-redistribution
R1(config-router)# exit
```
When you get into crazy designs where you want traffic to flow a certain direction, BGP is going to be an easier solution.
