---
name: 3.6.2.2
title: 3.6.2.2 - OSPF Non-Broadcast Network
short-title: OSPF Non-Broadcast Network
category: 3.6.2 OSPF Network Types
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.2.2.html
folder: ospf
---
Non-Broadcast Multi-Access Networks are capable of connecting more than two routers but have no broadcast ability. OSPF routers on NBMA networks elect a DR and BDR, and all OSPF packets are unicast. Since they are unicast, the **neighbor** statement must be used to specify neighbors. They do not necessarily need to be placed everywhere. For example, in a DMVPN network, you would just need neighbor statements on the hub router. You should also force DR election, and configure all non-hub routers with **ip ospf priority 0**. Then in all routers eligible to become the DR, place the neighbor statements for the DRothers in their configuration.

Any NBMA subnet can also be modeled as a Point-to-MultiPoint segment.

Routers capable of becoming the DR will send Hellos to every other DR eligible router every HelloInterval. The elected DR and BDR will send Hellos to all other routers on the NBMA network. The Hello rate starts as the HelloInterval but may slow to the PollInterval on NBMA networks (120 seconds). Routers configured with Priority of 0 send Hellos every HelloInterval only to the DR and BDR.

The DR in this scenario is responsible for replicating LSA information between neighbors. If R3 send the DR an LSA, then the DR has the responsibility to unicast the R3 LSA to all other routers in the network. This is the only difference in database synchronization between Broadcast and NBMA networks - the DR must replicate Link State Updates and send them to each adjacent router separately.

The Non-Broadcast network type is the default on Frame Relay and ATM networks, so it is not commonly seen today.

To use on a DMVPN topology, you would again need to make sure the hub was the DR and use neighbor statements toward every spoke from the hub. In the real world, you would never do this, as the whole point of DMVPN is that you do not have to manually configure the nodes.
