---
name: 3.6.9.8
title: 3.6.9.8 - Demand Circuit
short-title: Demand Circuit
category: 3.6.9 OSPF Convergence Optimization & Scalability
collection: ospf
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: ospf_sidebar
permalink: 3.6.9.8.html
folder: ospf
---
OSPF sends hellos every 10 seconds and refreshes its link-state advertisements (LSAs) every 30 minutes. These functions maintain neighbor relationships and ensure that the link-state databases are accurate and use far less bandwidth than similar functions in Routing Information Protocol (RIP) and Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (IGRP). However, even this amount of traffic is undesirable on demand circuits. Using OSPF demand circuit options suppresses hello and LSA refresh functions. OSPF can establish a demand link to form an adjacency and perform initial database synchronization, the adjacency remains active even after Layer 2 of the demand circuit goes down.

There are two main features of OSPF over demand circuit that make it different from a normal circuit.
- Suppressed periodic hellos
- Suppressed periodic LSA refresh

When an OSPF demand circuit is configured on a link, the periodic OSPF hellos are suppressed. Periodic hellos are suppressed only on a point-to-point and point-to-multipoint network type. On any other network type, OSPF hellos are still sent over the interface

Periodic LSA refreshes that take place every 30 minutes do not occur with OSPF demand circuit. When a demand circuit link is established a unique option bit (the DC bit) is exchanged between neighboring routers. If two routers negotiate the DC bit successfully they make a note of it and set a specific bit in the LSA Age called the DoNotAge bit (DNA). The DNA bit is the most significant bit in the LS Age field. By setting this bit the LSA stops aging, and no periodic updates are sent.

There are only two scenarios where the periodic LSA refresh occurs when using the OSPF demand circuit feature:
- If there is a change in network topology
- If there is a router in the OSPF domain that can not understand demand circuits

Firstly, not much can be done to stop the LSA refresh because the router has to send the new LSA information to update the neighbor about the topology change.
However, there is a special way to handle the second scenario. The area border router (ABR), which is Router D in the network diagram below, knows that Router C is incapable of understanding DNA LSAs because it sees the DC bit is clear in the option field in the LSA originated by Router C. In this situation the ABR, Router D, notifies the routers capable of demand circuit not to originate the LSA with the DNA bit set because there is a router that doesn't understand the DNA bit.

The ABR, Router D, originates an indication LSA in the backbone telling all routers in the backbone not to originate any DNA LSAs. When Router A (another ABR), sees this indication LSA it originates the indication LSA into other areas, excluding the backbone and any stub or not-so-stubby area (NSSA) area. The indication LSA is a type 4 Summary LSA in which the link-state ID is the ABR itself instead of the autonomous system boundary router (ASBR). In other words, both the link-state ID and the advertising router field are the same.

The metric of an indication LSA is set to infinity. The link-state ID and the advertising router field is always the router ID of the ABR originating the indication LSA.

Configuration is done on a per-interface basis.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.146
R1(config-if)# ip ospf demand-circuit
R1(config-if)# exit
```
