---
name: 3.1.22
title: 3.1.22 - Bidirectional Forwarding Detection
short-title: BFD
category: 3.1 IPv4
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: general-routing_sidebar
permalink: 3.1.22.html
folder: general-routing
---
### BFD General

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) is a protocol that is able to detect link failures within milliseconds or even microseconds between two adjacent routers. Most of the routing protocols have some mechanism to detect down links. OSPF has hello packets and the dead interval, EIGRP uses hello packets and a holddown timer, etc. Unfortunately since these mechanisms depend on the control plane, they are not very fast at determining a failure has occurred. But networks that support real-time traffic such as VoIP require fast convergence times. The closest comparison is reducing timer mechanisms of the routing protocols, but BFD is still faster in every situation.

BFD was designed to be fast. Its packets can be processed by some interface modules or line cards so there isn’t much overhead. BFD runs independent of routing protocols, but once it is up you can configure the routing protocols to use BFD for link failure detection instead of their own mechanisms. BFD operates in the forwarding place as compared to the control plane mechanisms of routing protocols.

The closest solution to BFD would be using the IGP detection mechanisms and setting their timers to be the lowest possible. BFD still has these advantages compared to the reduced IGP timer implementation:
- BFD is still faster with sub-second capabilities
- BFD is generic and could be used as the failure detection mechanism for any of the supported IGPs (EIGRP, IS-IS, OSPF)
- Because some parts of BFD can be distributed to the data plane, it can be less CPU-intensive than minimizing IGP timers.

BFD is therefore enabled at the interface and protocol levels. In order for a BFD session to be created, BFD must be configured on both systems. Once the BFD session is created, BFD timers are negotiated, and the BFD peers will begin to send BFD control packets to each other at the negotiated interval.

BFD has two operating modes, asynchronous and demand modes. The asynchronous mode is similar to the hello and holddown timers where BFD will keep sending hello packets (called BFD control packets) and when you don’t receive some of them, the session is torn down. Right now, no vendors support demand mode which relies on polling. Asynchronous mode requires that BFD be enabled and operational on both sides of the link.

In the Cisco implementation, there is one BFD process that runs, regardless of the number of Layer 3 routing protocols that are dependent upon it. Cisco BFD also requires CEF to be enabled. There is no support for Multihop - the devices running BFD must be no more than one hop away. Note this did change in IOS 15.3.

### BFD Echo Mode

Both modes support **echo mode**. When a device sends BFD echo packets along the forwarding path, the BFD session at the other end does not participate in the actual forwarding of the echo packets. This reduces the number of control packets that have to be sent out and also may slightly increase the link failure detection time as no processing has to occur at the remote end. BFD echo mode is enabled by default. You must make sure that BFD echo packets are not filtered on ingress interfaces.

Since echo mode can go fast without interrupting the CPU and since the echo will detect any outage, you do not need BFD control packets to be transmitted as frequently. This is where the **slow-timer** comes into play. Reducing the slow-timer reduces the frequency of BFD control packets, not the frequency of echo packets. The default slow timer is set to 2000 milliseconds. Below is an example use of the slow timer. Echo is enabled here, but remember it is the default mode of operation in IOS.
```
R1(config)# bfd slow-timer 15000
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# bfd echo
```

BFD packets are matched in the class class-default command. So, the user must make sure of the availability of appropriate bandwidth to prevent dropping of BFD packets due to oversubscription.

### BFD Configuration

You first enable BDF on an interface as below.
```
R1(conf)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(conf-if)# bfd interval *milliseconds* **min_rx** *milliseconds* **multiplier** *interval-multiplier*
R1(conf-if)# end
```
Really BFD by itself is not useful. You must enable another client or protocol to use BFD for link failure notification for BFD to be of any use. Optional protocols include OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, IS-IS, and HSRP.

#### Static Routing
```
R1(config-if)# bfd interval 500 min_rx 500 multiplier 5
R1(config-if)# ip address 10.200.200.1
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# ip route static bfd Serial2/0 10.200.200.2
R1(config)# ip route 10.0.0.0 255.0.0.0 Serial2/0 10.200.200.2
```
With static routing, you are basically declaring that as long as BFD has reachability to the IP address specified as the next-hop (10.20.200.1 above), then the routes specified using that next-hop address should be installed into the RIB so long as BFD remain up. In the example above you would also have BFD configured on R2 (the next-hop router).


#### BGP
```
R1(config)# router bgp 2828
R1(config-router)# neighbor 27.143.12.88 fall-over bfd
R1(config-router)# end
```
#### EIGRP
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# log-adjacency-changes
R1(config-router)# bfd all-interfaces <b>or below line</b>
R1(config-router)# bfd interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-router)# end
```
#### OSPF
There are two methods for enabling BFD support for OSPF:
- You can enable BFD for all interfaces for which OSPF is routing by using the `bfd all-interfaces` command in router configuration mode. You can then disable BFD support on individual interfaces using the `ip ospf bfd disable` command.
- You can enable BFD on a per interface basis with `ip ospf bfd` command in interface configuration mode.

#### HSRP
You enable bfd to register with HSRP by issuing the `standby bfd` interface command or by issuing the `standby bfd all-interfaces` command in global configuration mode.
