---
name: 3.1.8
title: 3.1.8 - Default Routing
short-title: Default Routes
category: 3.1 IPv4
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: general-routing_sidebar
permalink: 3.1.8.html
folder: general-routing
---
### General
Because of route recursion and the need for Layer 2 lookups on multipoint interfaces, default routing should be set up in one of two ways:
- to a next hop IP address if the interface is multipoint or point-to-point
- to an interface ONLY if the interface is point-to-point.

One issue with default routes is that you lose a lot of the routing detail. One way this shows itself is the fact that sites with default routes will have no idea if the end destination network is available. Another issue with the loss of detail has to do with having multiple default routes. With only having default routes, there is no routing details to show which is the better path to reach the end destination.

There are 3 ways (outside of dynamic routing protocols) to generate a default route.
- ip default-gateway
- ip default-network
- ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0

### IP Default-Gateway
**ip default-gateway** is used to define a default gateway when ip routing *is not* enabled on the device. This can be handy to transfer a Cisco software image to a device when the device is in boot mode. This obviously has limited usefulness.

### IP Default-Network
**ip default-network** is used to define a default gateway when ip routing *is* enabled on the router. It works a little differently and you must read it twoice to understand.

For every network configured with **ip default-network**, if a router has a route to that network, that route is flagged as a candidate default route. Note, the route to the network is flagged, not the network itself. Let's assume we have the following routes in our routing table.
```
Gateway of last resort is not set

     161.44.0.0/24 is subnetted, 1 subnets
C       161.44.192.0 is directly connected, Ethernet0
     131.108.0.0/24 is subnetted, 1 subnets
C       131.108.99.0 is directly connected, Serial0
S    198.10.1.0/24 [1/0] via 161.44.192.2
```
If we then entered the command below, 161.44.192.2 would become the gateway of last resort as seen in the new routing table.
```
R1(config)# ip default-network 198.10.1.0
```
```
Gateway of last resort is 161.44.192.2 to network 198.10.1.0

     161.44.0.0/24 is subnetted, 1 subnets
C       161.44.192.0 is directly connected, Ethernet0
     131.108.0.0/24 is subnetted, 1 subnets
C       131.108.99.0 is directly connected, Serial0
S*   198.10.1.0/24 [1/0] via 161.44.192.2
```
You can specify multiple instances of **ip default-network**, which will add another candidate default route. You must remember that it is a classful command. The **ip default-network** command gives you robustness in routing without running a routing protocol. You can configure your router to choose from a number of candidate default routes based on whether the routing table has routes to networks other than 0.0.0.0/0. That is the advantage of using this over routing to a specific next hop.

Default routes configured this way are propagated differently depending on which routing protocol is propagating the default route.

#### RIP
RIP advertises a route to network 0.0.0.0 if a gateway of last resort is configured using the **ip default-network** command. This network specified in the **ip default-network** command need not be explicitly advertised under RIP.

#### EIGRP
For EIGRP to propagate the default route, the network specified by **ip default-network** must be known to EIGRP. The network must be an EIGRP derived network in the routing table, or the static route used to generate the route to the network must be redistributed into EIGRP.

#### OSPF and IS-IS
The default route announced using the **ip default-network** command is not propagated by OSPF or IS-IS.


### IP Route 0.0.0.0

#### RIP
In earlier versions of RIP, the default route created using the **ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0** was automatically advertised by RIP routers. In Cisco IOS Software Release 12.0T and later, RIP does not advertise the default route if the route is not learned via RIP. It may be necessary to redistribute the route into RIP.

#### EIGRP
When using **ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0** to create a default route, EIGRP will propagate a route to network 0.0.0.0, but the static route must be redistributed into the routing protocol.
#### OSPF and IS-IS
The default routes created using the **ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0** command are not propagated by OSPF and IS-IS. Additionally, this default cannot be redistributed into OSPF or IS-IS using the redistribute command. Use the **default-information originate** command to generate a default route into an IS-IS or OSPF routing domain
