---
name: 3.1.12
title: 3.1.12 - IP Service Level Agreement
short-title: IP SLA
category: 3.1 IPv4
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: general-routing_sidebar
permalink: 3.1.12.html
folder: general-routing
reference: sla-15-mt-book.pdf
---
### Overview

Cisco IP SLA uses active traffic monitoring for measuring traffic performance. It performs this by generating traffic in a continuous, reliable, and predictable manner and then analyzing the results. The information collected includes response time, one-way latency, jitter, packet loss, voice quality scoring, network resource availability, application performance, and server response time.

### IP SLA Responder

If configuring simple IP SLA Operations such as ICMP echo, the operation only has to be configured on the local router. But for the more advanced Operations, you must set up the remote router or device to *respond* to your IP SLA traffic. The IP SLA Responder is a component embedded in the destination Cisco device that allows the system to anticipate and respond to IP SLA request packets. Only a Cisco device can be a source for a destination IP SLA Responder. The Responder takes two timestamps, one when the packet arrives and another as it is leaving. This allows the response to not include router processing time. Compare this to an ICMP Echo test whose results will vary widely depending on router load. Both the source and the target should be synchronized to the same NTP source for accurate measurement. To set up a Cisco routing device as an SLA responder, you would use the following:
```
R1(config)# ip sla responder
```


### IP SLA Scheduling
After an IP SLA Operation has been configured, you must schedule the operation to run:
```
R1(config)# ip sla schedule 1 start-time now life forever
```

### IP SLA Operation Types

To see the IP SLA Operation types, enter IP SLA configuration mode as follows:
```
R1(config)#ip sla 1
R1(config-ip-sla)#?
IP SLAs entry configuration commands:
  dhcp         DHCP Operation
  dns          DNS Query Operation
  ethernet     Ethernet Operations
  exit         Exit Operation Configuration
  ftp          FTP Operation
  http         HTTP Operation
  icmp-echo    ICMP Echo Operation
  icmp-jitter  ICMP Jitter Operation
  mpls         MPLS Operation
  path-echo    Path Discovered ICMP Echo Operation
  path-jitter  Path Discovered ICMP Jitter Operation
  tcp-connect  TCP Connect Operation
  udp-echo     UDP Echo Operation
  udp-jitter   UDP Jitter Operation
  voip         Voice Over IP Operation
```
#### IP SLA ICMP Jitter Operation
If the destination device is not a Cisco device that supports IP SLA Responder, then you can configure ICMP Jitter operation with any device that supports ICMP.
Since the accuracy of the ICMP response of a non-Cisco device cannot be guaranteed, this operation is considered less reliable than the UDP Jitter Operation. Also unlike the UDP Jitter Operation, ICMP Jitter cannot calculate MOS scores. The ICMP Jitter oepration resturns the following information:
- Jitter
- Latency
- Round-trip time
- Packet loss
- Successive packet loss
- Out-of-sequence packets
- Late packets



#### IP SLA UDP Jitter Operation
Jitter means inter-packet delay. For VoIP networks, a jitter value of 0 is ideal. The IP SLA UDP jitter operation can serve multiple purposes as the data returned by the operation can also provide the following information:
- Per-direction jitter
- Per-direction packet loss
- Per-direction delay (one-way delay)
- Round-trip delay (average round-trip time)

The configuration parameters include:
- the number of packets (**udp-jitter num-packets**)
- payload size per request packet (**request-data-size**)
- payload size per response packet (**response-data-size**)
- time between packets, in ms (**udp-jitter interval**)
- elapsed time before the operation repeats, in seconds (**frequency**)

Here is an example configuration. First we have the Destination Device.
```
R2(config)# ip sla responder
R2(config)# exit
```
And here is the configuration on the Source Device.
```
R1(config)# ip sla 1
R1(config-ip-sla)# udp-jitter 192.168.1.2 4444 num-packets 20
R1(config-ip-sla)# request-data-size 20
R1(config-ip-sla)# frequency 60
R1(config-ip-sla)# end
```

#### IP SLA UDP Jitter Operation for VoIP
UDP Jitter can also be used to proactively monitor VoIP conditions in the network and return MOS or ICPIF scores between Cisco devices in the network. It used UDP traffic to simulate RTP. You specify a voice codec to use and it will score the quality based on the codec.

#### IP SLA LSP Health Monitor
LSP health monitor enables you to proactively monitor Layer 3 MPLS VPNS. The feature provides automated end-to-end verification in the control plane and data plane for all LSPs between the participating Provider Edge (PE) devices. This end-to-end (PE-to-PE device) approach ensures that LSP connectivity is verified along the paths that customer traffic is sent. Consequently, customer-impacting network connectivity issues that occur within the MPLS core will be detected by the LSP Health Monitor. Once configured, the LSP Health Monitor will automatically create and delete IP SLAs LSP ping or LSP traceroute operations based on network topology.

#### IP SLA ICMP Echo Operation
The ICMP Echo operation measures end-to-end response time between a Cisco router and any devices using IP. Response time is computed by measuring the time taken between sending an ICMP Echo request message to the destination and receiving an ICMP Echo reply.

#### IP SLA ICMP Path Echo Operation
To monitor ICMP Path Echo performance on a device, use the IP SLAs ICMP Path Echo operation. An ICMP Path Echo operation measures end-to-end and hop-by-hop response time between a Cisco device and other devices using IP. ICMP Path Echo is useful for determining network availability and for troubleshooting network connectivity issues.

#### IP SLA UDP Echo Operation
The UDP echo operation measures end-to-end response time between a Cisco device and devices using IP. UDP is a transport layer (Layer 4) Internet protocol that is used for many IP services. UDP echo is used to measure response times and test end-to-end connectivity. The configuration is straightforward.
```
R1(config)# ip sla 1
R1(config-ip-sla)# udp-echo 192.168.1.2 4444
R1(config-ip-sla)# frequency 60
R1(config-ip-sla)# end
```

#### IP SLA HTTP Operation
The HTTP operation measures the round-trip time (RTT) between a Cisco device and an HTTP server to retrieve a web page. The HTTP server response time measurements consist of three types:
- DNS lookup (RTT to perform the lookup)
- TCP Connect (RTT to perform a TCP Connection to the Server)
- HTTP Transaction Time (RTT taken to send a request and receive a response)

#### IP SLA TCP Connect Operation
The IP SLAs TCP Connect operation measures the response time taken to perform a TCP Connect operation between a Cisco device and devices using IP. TCP is a transport layer (Layer 4) Internet protocol that provides reliable full-duplex data transmission. The destination device can be any device using IP or an IP SLAs Responder.


### Show Commands

To then see the results of the IP SLA configuration, use the following:
```
R1# show ip sla statistics
```

So starting from the top, a real quick example of an IP SLA configuration to ping an IP address every 30 seconds for 3 hours would look like this:
```
R1(config)# ip sla 1
R1(config-ip-sla)# icmp-echo 150.1.3.3
R1(config-ip-sla-echo)# frequency 30
R1(config-ip-sla-echo)# exit
R1(config)# ip spa schedule 1 start-time now life 10800
R1(config)# exit
```
