---
name: 3.1.9
title: 3.1.9 - CEF
short-title: CEF
category: 3.1 IPv4
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: general-routing_sidebar
permalink: 3.1.9.html
folder: general-routing
---
Routing is the process by which the router finds the interface to send outgoing packets out of. Switching is the actual process of physically transferring this packets from the ingress interface to the degree interface,

Process Switching is the oldest of the switching methods available in Cisco devices. When a packet arrives, the switching process relies on the CPU to do start at the top of the RIB and for each route do a binary AND against the destination to determine the longest match. It has to do this for every packet as it arrives. The time it may take for a lookup is dependent on where the route sits in the forwarding table, so your worst case scenario is the router would have to do 100,000 lookups.

Fast Switching is an improvement on Process Switching where a lookup only has to be done on the first inbound packet. The rest of the “flow” knows the switching path and utilizes what was learned from the lookup on the first packet.

Cisco Express Forwarding is the modern switching process found in Cisco devices. Once the router builds the RIB, the router pre calculates the routes and then stores these calculations in working memory, or in the case of devices that perform hardware acceleration, in port based ASICs.

To see the CEF calculated for a given route, use `show ip cef <prefix>`. See below for an example.
```
R1# show ip cef 192.0.2.1 detail

 192.168.5.0/24, version 21, cached adjacency to POS7/2
 0 packets, 0 bytes, traffic_index 4
 via 192.0.2.233, 0 dependencies, recursive
 next hop 192.0.2.234, POS7/2 via 172.16.0.0/12
 valid cached adjacency
```


One thing to remember is that the switching process is responsible for load balancing. This is done on a flow basis, not on a per packet basis as that would be too inefficient and packets would almost always arrive out of order on the other end.

`show ip interface` will tell you if CEF has been enabled. A key indicator of a router that does not have CEF enabled is one that has high CPU usage. It is also important to remember that packets that are logged do not get CEF switched, so any logging requires a lot of available CPU.
```
R1#show ip interface fastethernet 1/0/0.1 
 FastEthernet1/0/0.1 is up, line protocol is up

   IP fast switching is enabled
   IP fast switching on the same interface is enabled
   IP Flow switching is disabled
   IP CEF switching is enabled
   IP Distributed switching is enabled
   IP Fast switching turbo vector
   IP Normal CEF switching turbo vector
   IP multicast fast switching is enabled
   IP multicast distributed fast switching is disabled
   IP route-cache flags are Fast, Distributed, No CEF
```
