---
name: 3.1.2
title: 3.1.2 - IPv4 ARP
short-title: IPv4 ARP
category: 3.1 IPv4
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: general-routing_sidebar
permalink: 3.1.2.html
folder: general-routing
---
Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is used to determine the data-link identifier (MAC address) of a host with a known IPv4 address. The ARP request packet contains the IPV4 address of the device in question (the target), as well as the IPv4 and MAC address of the device making the request (the sender). The ARP packet is then encapsulated in a frame with the sender’s MAC address as the source and a broadcast address for the destination. The target will send an ARP Reply to the source address, supplying its MAC address. The ARP reply will lest the target as the original sender.

```
R1# show arp
```
The command above will display the ARP table on a Cisco router. To delete all the dynamic entries in the ARP table, use the exec command below. It clears the ARP cache as well as the Fast Switching cache.
```
R1# clear arp-cache
```

Cisco routers hold ARP entries for 4 hours by default. It can be changed on a per-interface basis with the interface subcommand below.
```
R1(config-if)# arp timeout <seconds>
```

Proxy ARP is a variation of ARP that is sometimes called promiscuous ARP. This is the method of how router’s will replay to an ARP request if they have a route to a host on another subnet. The router will send it’s own MAC address as a reply to the ARP request to trick the host into thinking it is the actual host in question. Proxy ARP is enabled by default in Cisco IOS and can be disabled on a per-interface basis with the command below.
```
R1(config-if)# no ip proxy-arp
```
