---
name: 3.2.14.99.1
title: 3.2.14.99.1 - IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Protocol
short-title: IPv6 NDP
category: 3.2 IPv6
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: general-routing_sidebar
permalink: 3.2.14.99.1.html
folder: general-routing
---
Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) is used by IPv6 hosts and routers for the following purposes:
- **Router Discovery** - A node can discover, when it is connected to an IPv6 link, the local routers without the aid of Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).
- **Prefix Discovery** - A node can discover, when it is connected to an IPv6 link, the prefix or prefixes assigned to that link.
- **Parameter Discovery** - A node can discover parameters such as the link MTU and hop limits for its connected link.
- **Address Autoconfiguration** - A node can determine its full address, again without the aid of DHCP.
- **Address Resolution** - A node can discover the link-layer addresses of other nodes on the link without the use of Address Resolution Protocol (ARP).
- **Next-Hop Determination** - A node on a link can determine the link-layer next hop for a destination, either as a local destination or a router to the destination.
- **Neighbor Unreachability Detection** - A node can determine when a neighbor on a link, either another host or a router, is no longer reachable.
- **Duplicate Address Detection** - A node can determine if an address it wants to use is already being used by another node on the link.
- **Redirect** - A router can notify a host of a better next-hop than itself to an off-link destination. The redirect function is a part of basic ICMP functionality in IPv4, but is redefined as part of NDP in IPv6.

The relationship between IPv6, ICMPv6, and Neighbor Discovery Protocol is as follows. IPv6 is of course the protocol stack. ICMPv6 is a control protocol for IPv6. Neighbor Discovery Protocol is the enabler of IPv6's plug-and play features. It provides those features by using the 9 functions listed above.

Neighbor Discovery uses 5 ICMPv6 messages:
1. Router Solicitation message
2. Router Advertisement message
3. Neighbor Solicitation message
4. Neighbor Advertisement message
5. Redirect message

Router Solicitation messages are used by hosts when it needs prefix, prefix length, default gateway, and other information for Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC). Router Advertisement messages are the messages used by Routers to convey that information to hosts.

Neighbor Solicitation and Neighbor Advertisement messages are two more protocols that use ICMPv6 Neighbor Discovery. These messages are used by a device to request Layer 2 link layer address information from another device on the same network or to provide this information to the requesting device. Neighbor Solicitation and Neighbor Advertisement messages are part of three important processes:
1. Address resolution
2. Duplicate Address Detection (DAD)
3. Neighbor Unreachability Detection (DUD)

An IPv6 host will maintain two tables for each interface:
- Neighbor cache
- Destination Cache

The Neighbor cache is equivalent to an ARP table in IPv4. The neighbor cache contains mappings of hosts on the same network, while the destination cache contains layer-2 to layer-3 resolutions for devices on other links or networks.  To see the Neighbor table, issue `show ipv6 neighbors` command.
