---
name: 3.2.5
title: 3.2.5 - IPv6 Auto-Configuration / SLAAC
short-title: IPv6 SLAAC
category: 3.2 IPv6
collection: general-routing
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: general-routing_sidebar
permalink: 3.2.5.html
folder: general-routing
---
Stateless Address Autoconfiguration is a mechanism that allows a host to generate its own unicast address using a combination of locally available information and information advertised by routers. Here are the 4 steps:
1. The host creates its own link-local unicast address by appending a randomly generated or EUI-64 created Interface ID to FE80::/10.
2. The host performs Duplicate Address Detection on its newly created link-local address.
3. The host (if it hasn’t already received one), sends a Router Solicitation message. The Router Advertisement includes the prefix, prefix length, and link MTU. The host uses this information along with its self created Interface ID to create its global unicast address. The default gateway is the Router’s link-local address.
4. The host performs Duplicate Address Detection on its global unicast address before using.

In addition to SLAAC, there is also DHCPv6, which is a stateful process. Whether a host that is configured to obtain its addressing information automatically uses SLAAC or DHCPv6 depends upon the configuration of the router’s Router Advertisement message.

There is little configuration required on the router that is acting as the auto-configuration server, sending RA messages out and responding to RS requests.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# no ipv6 nd ra suppress
R1(config-if)# end
```
The only other server requirement is that IPv6 must be enabled on the interface and an IPv6 address must be assigned. And then on the client, we just tell IOS to get its IPv6 address from the autoconfiguration process.
```
R2(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R2(config-if)# ipv6 address autoconfig
R2(config-if)# end
```
We would now have a useable IP address on our client's gig0/1 interface. But what if we wanted to assign DNS servers to the IPv6 autoconfig client? Well, then we would need to set up the server with DHCP.
```
R1(config)# ipv6 dhcp pool DHCP_POOL
R1(config-dhcp)# dns-server 2001:1212::100
R1(config-dhcp)# domain-name internetbrew.com
R1(config-dhcp)# exit
R1(config)# int gig0/1
R1(config-if)# ipv6 dhcp server DHCP_POOL
R1(config-if)# ipv6 nd other-config-flag
R1(config-if)# end
```
