---
name: 10.1
title: 10.1 - Cloud Deployment Models
short-title: Cloud Deployment Models
category: 10 Evolving Technologies
collection: evolving-tech
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: evolving-tech_sidebar
permalink: 10.1.html
folder: evolving-tech
---

#### Deployment Models
All clouds have 5 characteristics:
- on-demand self-service
- broad network access
- resource pooling
- rapid elasticity
- measured service

##### Public Cloud
A public cloud is a multitenant capable and shared by a large number of customers who likely have nothing in common. AWS, Azure, and Google are the most familiar public cloud providers.
##### Private Cloud
A private cloud is a cloud that meets all the requirements of a cloud platform except perhaps broad network access, but yet is accessible only by a single consumer.

##### Hybrid Cloud
A Hybrid cloud deployment is simply a combination of two or more of the public and private models with a management framework in place so that the environments appear as a single cloud.


#### Service Layers of Cloud Computing

##### SaaS
Cloud application service, or SaaS, represents the largest cloud market and is still growing. SaaS uses the web to deliver applications that are managed by a thrid party-vendor whose interface is accessed on the client's side. Popular SaaS offerings include email and collaboration, customer management suites, and healthcare applications.


##### PaaS
Cloud platform services, or PaaS, are used by applications and application developers. They provide a framework on which applications can be built. The third party manages OS's, hardware, virtualization, etc so the user can focus on thge application.

##### IaaS
This is a self-service model monitoring and managing remote data center resources. Instead of purchasing hardware, users can rent resources based on consumptions. The providers manage the hardware resources while the users manage the infrastructure. Many IaaS providers offer databases, messaging queues, and other service on top of the infrastructure.


