---
name: 10.2
title: 10.2 - Cloud Automation
short-title: Cloud Automoation
category: 10 Evolving Technologies
collection: evolving-tech
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: evolving-tech_sidebar
permalink: 10.2.html
folder: evolving-tech
---

##### Chef
Chef is an open source tool for configuration management, focused on the developer side for its user base. Chef operates as a master-client model, with a separate workstation needed to control the master. It is written in Ruby, with pure Ruby used for most of the elements you write. Git is required for its configuration.

#####  Puppet
Puppet is one of the long standing tools in the full-fledged configuration management space. It is open source and base don Ruby, but uses a custom Domain Specific Language (DSL) closer to JSON for working within it. Like Chef, it runs as a master-client setup. Cisco Nexus switches integrate with Puppet automation software by use of a plugin.

##### Ansible
Ansible is an open source tool used to deploy applications to remote nodes and provision servers in a repeatable way. It is generally configured with a pusg model setup, though it can be configured for master-client. Ansible is built on playbooks that you can apply to an extensive variety of systems for deploying your app. Ansible is SSH based, so it does not require installing any agents on remote nodes. It uses YAML, and its playbook structure is simple. Ansible is written in Python and PowerShell,

##### SaltStack
SaltStack is a CLI-based tool that can be set up as a master-client model or non-centralized model. It offers a push-method and an SSH method of communication with clients. It uses YAML so the data is very consistent.

