---
name: 10.3
title: 10.3 - OpenStack
short-title: OpenStack
category: 10 Evolving Technologies
collection: evolving-tech
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: evolving-tech_sidebar
permalink: 10.3.html
folder: evolving-tech
---
OpenStack embraces a modular architecture to provide a set of core services that facilitates scalability and elasticity as core design tenets. We will review these OpenStack components in this articale.

##### Nova (Compute)
Nova is the compute service in OpenStack. It provides the services to support the management of virtual machine instances. This is the core of the virtual machine management software, but it is not a hypervisor, but supports virtualization technologies such as KVM, Xen, ESX, and Hyper-V. Nova can be thought of as the equivalent to Amazon EC2.
##### Neutron (Networking)
Neutron manages the networking associated with OpenStack clouds. It is an API-driven system that allows networks to be spun up and down. It supports VLANs and GRE tunnels for the Cisco Nexus plugin. Amond the networking services it offers are IP address management, DNS, DHCP, load balancing, and security groups (firewall rules).
##### Swift (Object Storage)
Swift is an object storage platform donated by Rackspace. This is teh equivalent of Amazon's Simple Storage Srevice, or S3.
##### Cinder (Block Storage)
Cinders allows for blocks of storage to be managed. These blocks are meant to be assigned to compute instances just as AWS's Elastic Block Storage (EBS) feature.
##### Manila (Shared File Storage)
Manilla provides a set of services for managing shared file systems in a multi-tenant cloud environment. With Manila, you can create a remote file system, mount the file system on your instances, and then read and write data from your instances to and from your file system.
##### Keystone (Authentication)
Keystone is the primary tool for user authentication and role-based access controlin OpenStack. Keystone integrates with LDAP and supports traditional username and password logins.
##### Dashboard (GUI)
Dashboard is the primary graphical user interface for using OpenStack clouds. Sometimes called Horizon, it is the primary way for accessing resources if APIs are not used.
##### Glance (Images)
Glance creates templates for virtual machines by snapshoting a virtual machine image. This snapshot can then be recreated later. Glance can also be used as an archive for machine states. It uses Cinder to store the images.
##### Ceilometer (Telemetry)
Ceilometer is a telemetry system that allows administrators to track usage of the OpenStack Cloud, including which users are accessing cloud resources and overall cloud resource utilization.
##### Heat (Orchestration)
Heat is an orchestration engine that allows developers to automate the deployment of infrastructure. Heat also includes an auto-scaling function, which allows services to add resources as they are needed.
##### Ironic (Bare Metal)
Ironic is the OpenStack bare metal provisioning system which aims to provision bare metal machines instead of virtual machines. It is best thought of as a bare metal hypervisor API.
##### Trove (Database)
Trove is a database as a service provisioning engine.
##### Designate (DNS)
Designate is a multi-tenant REST API for managing DNS.
##### Barbican (Key Manager)
Barbican provides secure provisioning, management, and storage of keys (passwords).