---
name: 10.4
title: 10.4 - SDN Overview
short-title: SDN Overview
category: 10 Evolving Technologies
collection: evolving-tech
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: evolving-tech_sidebar
permalink: 10.4.html
folder: evolving-tech
---

#### Controllers
The controller in SDN is a software-based device that is centralized between the applications and the network devices. The controller maintains a view of the entire network, implements policy decisions, controls all SDN devices, and provides a northbound API for applications. Right now there is no standardized northbound API equivalent to OpenFlow.

There are many open source controllers on the market today. OpenDaylight has been built by a consortium of vendors. *Open Network Operating SYstem* (ONOS) is popular in the carrier market.

#### APIs
The idea behind APIs is to use legacy management interfaces (SSH, SNMP, NETCONF, etc) to provide an interface from the controller to the SDN devices. One huge benefit of this approach is taht there is no need for the Southbound device to support OpenFlow.

#### Scripting
Perl is an example of a scripting language that can be used with SDN. A scripting language is typically lightweight and easy to learn.

#### Agents
Agents are small software programs that reside on host devices. The agent can act as sort of an intermediate between the host device and its controller, allowing communication ebtween the devices. An example would be the OpenFlow agent that resides on Nexus switches. Puppet is an agent-based automation toolkit.

#### Northbound vs Southbound Protocols
Northbound is toward the applications while Southbound is toward the network devices. An example of a Southbound protocol is OpenFlow that the controller uses to program network devices. The Northbound API is intended to provide an abstraction of the southbound devices and topology for the application developer. It converst the Southbound configuration details into a format more familiar to the developer and hides the application developer of the technical details of the device protocols, such as OpenFlow or BGP.

#### API-based SDN
The version of SDN leverages existing APIs and protocols such as NETCONF and BGP-LS. This is compared to the typical SDN approach of using OpenFlow to control the devices.

#### SDN via Hypervisor-Based Overlay Networks
This type of SDN involves the use of network virtualization protocols such as VXLAN, NVGRE, and STT to bypass the physical network altogether, providing SDN-type improvements implementd in the virtual switches present in hypervisors.
##### VXLAN
Virtual eXtensible Area Network (VXLAN) is a Mac-in-IP/UDP tunneling encapsulation designed to provide layer 2 mobility across a data center fabric with an IP-based underlay network.
##### NVGRE
Network Virtualization using Generic Routing Encapsulation (NVGRE) extends classic GRE tunneling to include a subnet identifier within the header, allowing GRE to tunnel Layer-2 frames over IP/GRE.

#### OpenFlow
The OpenFlow protocol describes the specific messages and message formats exchanged between the controller and devices. OpenFlow is the only nonproprietary, general purpose protocol for programming the forwarding plane of SDN switches.

#### Network / Application Function Virtualization
NFV and AFV refer to taking specific network functions, virtualizing them, and assembling them in a sequence to meet a specific business need. NFV and AFV are generally synonymous with creating virtual instances of things which were once physical.

#### ETSI NFV Framework
