---
name: 10.5
title: 10.5 - DevOps and Network Automation
short-title: DevOps and AUtomation
category: 10 Evolving Technologies
collection: evolving-tech
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: evolving-tech_sidebar
permalink: 10.5.html
folder: evolving-tech
---
#### DevOps
DevOps is a relatively new term that describes a cultural shift in service delivery, management, and operation.

#### NETCONF / YANG
Cisco announced NETCONF/YANG support across its enterprise network portfolio. It is available in 16.3 XE code for routers and switches. NETCONF/YANG allows programatic access to network devices using structured data. Cisco has had NETCONF support since 2004, where NETCONF was the transport and you were basically sending and receiving chunks of text to and from the router, which was similar to just SSHing to the router and running commands directly. The 2016 version includes YANG to structre the data that is sent and received. Previously, in order to act on the received text you basically had to "screen scrape" the return text from the CLI. The responses are in XML format. XML's tree-like structure allows for easy interaction with the configuration. For example, if you only wanted to receive configuration information on interfaces, you would send the XML XPATH as "interfaces", limiting the output to the desired results. NETCONF works using SSH as the transport to port 830. YANG's role in all of this is the modeling of the data that IOS XE supports.

####RESTCONF
RESTCONF is a newer API on IOS XE. It is so new it is not yet supported by Cisco TAC. It uses HTTP GETs to query a device (instead of SSH) and receives output in either XML or JSON format. RESTCONF is a close equivalent to NETCONF.

#### Puppet, Chef, and Ansible
The same tools we saw earlier with cloud automation can also be used for network automation.

#### Service Function Chaining
Service Function Chaining is taking  NFV/AFV components and sequencing them to create some customized chain of events to solve a business problem.
