---
name: 10.6
title: 10.6 - Cisco SDN
short-title: Cisco SDN
category: 10 Evolving Technologies
collection: evolving-tech
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: evolving-tech_sidebar
permalink: 10.6.html
folder: evolving-tech
---

#### Cisco ONE
Cisco Open Network Environment (ONE) is a customizable framework for harnessing the entire value of the intelligent network. It is delivered through a variety of mechanisms, advocating Open APIs, open standards, and open-source technologies.

Today, Cisco ONE is being delivered via several approaches:
- device and network APIs
- Cisco Controller
- Programmable, virtual network overlays

Some components of Cisco ONE are:
- UCS Director
- Virtual Application Container Services
- Cisco Prime Service Catalog
- Intercloud fabric

#### Cisco Intercloud Fabric
I am not sure this will be on the exam, as the product is end of life and end of sale. It is deployed on premise, allowing for connectivity to a large ecosystem of cloud providers to support hybrid cloud deployments for enterprises.

#### Cisco Open SDN Controller
The Cisco Open SDN Controller is a commercial distribution of OpenDaylight. This product also went end of sale in 2017, with last support occuring in 2020.

#### Cisco Application Centric Infrastructure
Cisco ACI is a tightly coupled policy-driven solution that integrates hardware and software. The hardware is the Cisco Nexus 9000 line of switches. The centralized SDN controller is the Application Policy Infrastructure Controller (APIC). The Cisco APIC uses OpFlex, a southbound protocol used for managing the switches. OpFlex is more policy based compared to OpenFlow. APIC doesn't manipulate the data path directly; instead it centralizes the policy definition thus automating the entire process of installing and ensuring the policy. APIC is a network virtualization platform, done in hardware instead of software, with an application-aware network policy layer on top of it.

#### OpFlex
OpFlex was created to transfer abstract policybfrom a network policy controller to a set of smart devices capable of rendering abstract policy. OpFlex at its roots is an open and extensible policy protocol for transferring abstarct policy in XML or JSON between a network policy controller and any device, including hypervisor switches or physical switches.