---
name: 10.7
title: 10.7 - Internet of Things
short-title: Internet of Things
category: 10 Evolving Technologies
collection: evolving-tech
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: evolving-tech_sidebar
permalink: 10.7.html
folder: evolving-tech
---
#### IoT
IoT grew out of RFID research at MIT. According to Cisco, the IoT is simply the point in time when more "things or objects" were connected to the Internet than people. Drilling down in the numbers it can most likely be said the IoT begain in late 2008 or 2009. It is often said that IoT is the network of networks, because as the number of connected devices grows, the connectivity between devices also grows.

IoT describes a system where items in the physical world, and sensors within or attached to these items, are connected to the Internet via wireless and wired connections. Various type of local conectivity can be used such as RFID, NFC, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and Zigbee. Wide area connectivity can be achieved via GSM, GPRS, 3G, and LTE.

IoT data differs from traditional computing. The data tends to be small in size and frequent in transmission. There are also more connected devices on the network with IoT than with traditional networks.

Some of the challenges of IoT are:
- IPv6 deployment
- sensor energy
- standards


#### Zigbee
Zigbee is popular in the industrial space for IoT. It is a wireless technology that operates at 2.4 GHz and supports data rates up to 256kbps. It functions well for low-security, high power applications. Its range is limited, supporting anywhere from 10-100m. One example implementation is the Philips Hue.

#### RPL
Routing Protocol for Low Lossy Networks (RPL) is the IPv6 routing protocol for low-power and lossy networks, as defined in RFC6550. Low power and lossy networks are a class of network in which both the routers and their interconnect are constrained. LLN routers are contrained by processing power, memory, or energy (battery) while their interconnects are constrained by low data rates, high loss rates, and general stability. RLN supports both a point-to-point and a point-to-multipoint architecture. RPL makes use of a wide set of network attributes that can be used as contraints or metrics for routing decision. Three components are Control Points, Routers, and Sensors.

#### CoAP
The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) is a specialized web transfer protocol for use with contrained nodes and constrained networks in the Internet of Things. It is designe dfor M2M applications such as smart energy and building automation. It is based on the REST model. It is a standards based protocol specified by RFC 7252. It uses NAT64, DNS64, and LDAP authentication. Security for CoAP is provided by Datagram TLS (DTLS). CoAP UDP transport uses ports 5683 or 5684.

#### 6LoWPAN
6LoWPAN is a networking technology that allows IPv6 packets to be carried efficiently within small link layer frames, such as those defined by IEEE 802.15.4. The main difference between it and other technologies for contrained networks is that the edge routers forward packets at the network layer and do not maintain any application layer awareness or state. This lowers the burden on the edge router.

#### Internet of Everything
Cisco estimates that 99.4 percent of physical objects are still unconnected. As barriers to connectedness continue to drop, we have passed the age of IoT and are in the age of IoE. By definition, IoE includes three types of connections: M2M, person-to-machine (P2M), and person-to-person (P2P). IoE and IoT are often considered to consist of 4 things: People, Process, Data and Things.

[Here](https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en_us/solutions/trends/iot/introduction_to_IoT_november.pdf) is a link to a good IoT white paper.