---
name: 6.0
title: 6.0 - QoS Basics
short-title: QoS Basics
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.0.html
folder: qos
---
### QoS Basics

QoS can be defined as the ability of the network to provide better or "special" service to a set of users/applications to the detriment of other users/applications. There are 4 traffic characteristics that QoS tools can affect:
- Bandwidth
- Delay
- Jitter
- Packet loss

The key to a successful QoS policy is one that improves a QoS characteristic for a flow that needs the characteristic, while degrading the same characteristic for a flow that does not need that characteristic.

#### Tools that affect bandwidth
- The best QoS tool for bandwidth is more bandwidth!
- Compression will reduce the number of bits required to transmit the data, thus aiding bandwidth
- Call Admission Control (CAC) decide whether the network can accept new voice and video calls
- Queuing tools can affect the amount of bandwidth that certain types of traffic receive

#### Delay
There are a number of types of delays and we need to understand those first before looking at how to use QoS tools to lower delay. Among the types of delay are:
- Serialization delay (fixed)
- Propogation delay (fixed)
- Queuing delay (variable)
- Forwarding/prcoessing delay (variable)
- Shaping delay (variable)
- Network delay (variable)
- Codec delay (fixed)
- Compression delay (variable)

##### Serialization delay
Serialization delay defines the time it takes to encode the bits of a packet onto the physical interface. I fthe link is fast, bits can be encoded on the link more quickly. Also, if the packet is short, it does not take as long to put the bits on the interface as it would if the packet were long. There is a formula to calculate the serialization delay:

$$\frac{#bits sent}{Link speed}$$

To show you the vast difference that serialization delay between fast and slow links, the serialization delay for a 1000 bit packet on a 100Mb circuit is .01 ms. That same 1000 bit packet serialized onto a 56k link results in 17.85 ms of serialization delay.

##### Propogation delay
propogation delay defines the amount of time it takes for a single bit to get from one end of the link to the other end of the link. The speed of energy on optical and electrical interfaces approaches the speed of light, and there is nothing the network engineer can do to make that faster. So the only variable that affects the propogation delay is the length of the link. The typical formula for propogation delay is:

$$\frac{Length of link(meters)}{2.1 x 10^8 meters/second}$$

3.0 x $$10^8$$ is the speed of light in a vacuum so 2.1 is 70% of that value, which is considered to be a good estimation of the speed over copper and optical interfaces.

One common misconception is that the link speed affects propogation delay - it does not.

##### Queuing delay
Queuing delay consists of the time spent in the queues inside the device. Input queues are usually negligible so the queuing delay is mainly comprised of the output queue delay.

Queiing provides a good benefit, because if there was no queuing all packets that could not be immediately handled by the output processor would be discarded.

##### Forwarding delay
Forwarding delay refers to the processing time between when a frame is fully received, and when the packet has been placed in an output queue. Time spent in an output queue is not included in forwarding delay. It also does not include the time it takes to process the route or actually forward the packet. Forwarding delay is typically a very small component as switches today utilize cut-through forwarding most of the time insteda of store-and-forward.

##### Shaping delay
Shaping delay causes additional delay by serving queues more slowly than if traffic shaping were not used. Shaping is used to match the forwarding rate of the router when interfaces have different speeds, as is the case with a sub-rate WAN connection from the service provider and a gigabit LAN connection.

##### Network Delay
This most often refers to the service provider "cloud" delay. It is usually guaranteed by a SLA when contracting business class services. Though the actual delay may be unknown, you can make a calculated guess by using the distance between locations as the propogation delay and the slowest interfaces as the serialization delay. Queuing delay inside the provider cloud is hard to predict, but again may be protected by some type of SLA.

##### Tools that Affect Delay
- the best tool to assist delay is once again, ... more bandwidth!
- Queuing (scheduling) can be used to determine which packets leave queues more quickly
- Link fragmentation and interleaving will assist in serialization delays by breaking large packets into smaller ones. Also, smaller, delay sensitive packets will be sent before large, delay insensitive packets
- compression will assist in serialization delay as well as reduce the size of internal queues. However, compression may add some processing delay
- Shaping actually increases delay, but is needed to prevent packets from being dropped

#### Jitter
Jitter occurs when consecutive packets experience different amounts of delay. It is defined as a variation in the arrival rate of packets that were sent in a uniform manner.

The QoS tools that affect Jitter are the same as those that affect Delay:
- more bandwidth!
- Queuing will ensure that delay / jitter sensitive packets will leave their queues first
- LFI will break large packets into smaller packets and send smaller delay sensitive packets first
- compression
- Shaping (negative affect)

#### Loss (reliability)
There are many elements of packet loss that QoS cannot affect. However, QoS tools can be used to minimize the impact of packets lost due to full queues. In most networks today the loss of packets due to bit errors is minimal. Most drops are due to full buffers or queues. Only a few QoS tools can help with packet loss:
- bandwidth!
- Random Early Detection
- Increasing Queue length helps reduce drops but increase delay


##### Random Early Detection
RED works under the assumption that if some of the TCP connections can be made to shrink their window size before output queues fill, the collective number of packets sent into the network will be smaller and the queue will not fill. RED manages the end of a queue while the queuing tools manage the front of the queue.

The big diffence between RED and tail drops (where the router drops the last of a packet flow becuase queues/buffers are full), is that RED will operate before tail drop occurs, resulting in only a few of the connections needing to reduce their window size.

### QoS Tools
The specific QoS tools in IOS are:
- Classification and marking
- Congestion management (queuing)
- Shaping and policing
- Congestion avoidance
- Link-efficiency
- Call Admission Control (CAC)

#### Classification and Marking
- almost every QoS tool relys on classification
- classification involves differentiating one packet from another, most of the time by examining fields inside the header
- marking usually involves marking fields in the IP Precedence field or the DSCP field
- class-based marking and NBAR are the two frequently used tools

#### Congestion Management (Queuing)
- most queuing occurs at the output interface
- To compare queuing tools, you should look at:
	- classification capabilities, or specifically, what packet header fields can be matched to classify a packet as belonging to a particular queue
	- maximum number of queues
	- the scheduling algorithm
- We will look at each queuing tool specifically, but the six IOS queuing tools are:
	- Priority Queuing (PQ)
	- Custom Queuing (CQ)
	- Weighted Fair Queuing (WFQ)
	- Class-Based Weighted Fair Queuing (CBWFQ)
	- Low Latency Queuing (LLQ)
	- Modified Deficit Round-Robin (MDRR)

#### Shaping and Policing
- networks that need policing typically need shaping as well
- both can be described using metaphors of token buckets
- any time a speed mismatch occurs, shaping may be able to reduce the chance that packets get dropped
- traffic policers typically monitor ingress traffic
- Class-Based Policing is the policer in IOS. It supports subinterfaces and requires CEF.
- Class-Based Shaping is the shaper in IOS. It supports subinterfaces and also requires CEF.

#### Congestion Avoidance
- tail drop is when new packets need to be added to a full output queue and are therfore dropped.
- one solution to tail drop is to lengthent the queue; the other solution requires that devices sending packets slow down their transmission before queues fill - this is Congestion Avoidance.
- There are 3 Congestion Avoidance tools in IOS:
	- Random Early Detection (RED)
	- Weighted Random Early Detection (WRED)
	- Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN)

#### Link Efficiency
- These tools include compression and fragmentation
- two types of compression in IOS are header compression and payload compression
- headers are predictable and therefore much higher compression ratios can be achieved; but the headers are usually a small portion of the overall packet size
- LFI fragments large packets into smaller packets, and then interleaves high priority packets between fragments



