---
name: 6.10
title: 6.10 - MQC LLQ and Remaining Bandwidth Reservations
short-title: MQC LLQ and Remaining Bandwidth Reservations
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.10.html
folder: qos
---
LLQ is not really a separate queuing tool, but rather a simple option of CBWFQ applied to one or more classes. CBWFQ then always services these classes if a packet is waiting. LLQ may sometimes be referred to as PQ. It is enabled at the class level, by using the **priority** command and the class that had the **priority** command is then referred to as the LLQ or PQ. In most situations, LLQ is applied to a single class, but there is nothing stopping you from applying it to multiple classes.

The scheduler logic with the LLQ states that if there is room on the TX-Ring, and there are packets in the LLQ, then those packets are moved to the TX-Ring. If there are non packets in the LLQ, then non-LLQ queues may be serviced. For delay based traffic, the LLQ overcomes the one big negative of CBWFQ - no explicit priority for low latency packets, only bandwidth reservation.

You may be asking, well if the LLQ is always serviced first, then won't other queues face starvation? The answer is no, because you still apply a bandwidth allocation to the LLQ, so the scheduler takes a packet from the LLQ only if the LLQ is using less than its reserved bandwidth. This policing function of the LLQ protects the other queues from never being serviced.

The configuration for LLQ is easy. Instead of using the **bandwidth** command on a class, use the **priority** command listing the bandwidth in kbps or optionally as a percentage of the interface's configured bandwidth.
```
R1(config)# class-map VOIP
R1(config-cmap)# match ip dscp ef
R1(config-cmap)# exit
R1(config)# class-map AF41
R1(config-cmap)# match ip dscp af41
R1(config-cmap)# exit
R1(config)# policy-map VOIP_10000
R1(config-pmap)# class VOIP
R1(config-pmap-c)# priority 10000
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# class AF41
R1(config-pmap-c)# bandwidth 30000
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# class class-default
R1(config-pmap-c)# bandwidth 60000
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# service-policy input VOIP_10000
R1(config-if)# end
```

The **priority** command replaces the **bandwidth** command from our earlier example in the policy-map VOIP_10000. If we were then to issue a **show policy-map VOIP_10000**, this is what we would see signifing our LLQ configuration took.
```
R1# show policy-map VOIP_10000
  Policy Map VOIP_10000
  Class VOIP
    Weighted Fair Queuing
	     Strict Priority
		 Bandwidth 10000 (kbps) Burst 250000 (Bytes)
```
The burst value is used by the policing function of LLQ. The default burst size is equal to 200ms of traffic

Though not always common, it is possible to have more than one LLQ in a policy-map. The most common example would be if you wanted to run Voice and Video in separate LLQs, with different policers.

Now that we have seen WFQ, CBWFQ, and LLQ, we should do a quick comparison. WFQ works well as a default queuing mechanism when there are no low-latency requirements. CBWFQ is great when an engineer takes the time to understand traffic characteristics and can assign a certain amount of bandwidth per type of traffic. Finally LLQ provides service for low latency applications while also providing protection for other queues by policing the bandwidth of the LLQ.
