---
name: 6.11
title: 6.11 - MQC WRED
short-title: MQC WRED
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.11.html
folder: qos
---
QoS congestion avoidance tools work by monitoring queues and before the queues completely fill dropping some packets. They rely heavily on the behavior of TCP congestion control. The two congestion avoidance tools of IOS are Weighted Random Early Detectio (WRED) and Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN). To understand how Random Early Congestion works, you really need to understand TCP WIndowing.

TCP actually uses two separate windows that determine the maximum windows size of data that can be sent before the sender must stop and wait for an acknowledgement. The first of the two window features uses the Window field in the TCP header which is called the *receiver window* or the *advertised window*. The receiver grants the sender the right to send X bytes of data before sneding acknowledgement. The receiver grants larger and larger windows as time goes on, all the way to the point where a TCP sender never stops sending.

The second window used by TCP is called the *congestion window* or CWND. This window is calculated by the TCP sender and is not communicated with the TCP receiver. CWND changes sizes much quicker than the *receiver window* because it was designed to react to congestion in networks.

The TCP sender always uses the lower of the two windows to determine how much data it can send before receiving an acknowledgement. RED depends upon the reaction of the *congestion window* to lost packets in order for its congestion avoidance technique to work.

When a TCP sneder fails to receive an acknowledgement, it reduces the size of the CWND to a lower value. This value could be half the current CWND, or it could be lowered all the way down to one segment size, a process known as *slamming* the window shut. The sender progressively increases CWND based first on slow start, and then on congestion avoidance. Slow start increases CWND by the maximum segment size for every packet for which it receives an acknowledgement. This causes an exponential growth in the CWND. Congestion avoidance refers to the fact that as CWND increases to the point of its previous value (before not receiving an ACK), the growth rate of the CWND slows down. The idea is that if sending previously at a particular rate without acknowledgment caused the far end to not receive all segments, we should logically slow down once we start reaching that prior threshold. Once CWND reaches this congestion avoidance state, it continues to grow, but the growth is linear and not exponential.

You should remember *global synchronization* from your CCNP studies. It occurs due to many TCP connections all reducing and increasing their CWND windows at the same time due to overutilization on a link. The senders will all increase their CWND until the overall transmission rate exceeds the link rate, and then acknowledgements will be lost and CWND windows will be halved. This cycle continues as long as their is traffic waiting to be sent that exceeds link utilization.

WRED, when applied to the interface that was dropping packets, significantly reduces global synchronization. WRED allows the average output rates to approach the link rate, while significantly reducing throughput due to fewer overall dropped packets.

RED works by dropping packets so that *some* of the TCP connections temporarily send fewer packets into the network. It does this randomly and before the queues become overfilled. This prevents tail drops and the resulting global synchronization. RED must determine under what conditions should it drop packets, and when it does, how many packets should it drop.

WRED can be applied directly to a physical interface. However, when configured this way IOS only supports FIFO queuing on the interface.

When WRED is applied to CBWFQ queues as well. You configure CBWFQ (and LLQ if needed) as normal. You then apply WRED to the individual classes as needs. However, you cannot use WRED inside a class configured as a LLQ. WRED works separately on each class that you apply it to, calculating average queue depths and maintaining separate minimum and maximum thresholds for each class independently.

WRED has default per DSCP and IP Precedence thresholds. You can change those per class configuration if needed.
```
R1(config)# class-map VOIP
R1(config-cmap)# match ip dscp ef
R1(config-cmap)# exit
R1(config)# class-map AF41
R1(config-cmap)# match ip dscp af41
R1(config-cmap)# exit
R1(config)# policy-map VOIP_10000
R1(config-pmap)# class VOIP
R1(config-pmap-c)# priority 10000
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# class AF41
R1(config-pmap-c)# bandwidth 30000
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# class class-default
R1(config-pmap-c)# bandwidth 60000
R1(config-pmap-c)# random-detect
R1(config-pmap-c)# random-detect 2 4 16 4
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# service-policy input VOIP_10000
R1(config-if)# end
```
We see above in class-default under policy-map VOIP_10000 we are using WRED.
