---
name: 6.13
title: 6.13 - MQC WRED with ECN
short-title: MQC WRED with ECN
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.13.html
folder: qos
---
ECN is very interrelated to WRED. WRED's main goal is to have some TCP senders to temporarily slow down the rate at which they send data into the network. This reduces the chances for problems such as tail drop and global synchronization. However, the method in which WRED operates is still disruptful - packets are discarded to make senders slow down. The idea is to do a little hard now to prevent lots of harm later.

Explicit Congestion Notification provides the same benefit as WRED, without discarding packets. ECN is really just a feature of WRED in which TCP senders are signalled to slow down by setting bits in the packet headers. TCP senders can be told to slow down their rate of transmission by the output router, all while avoiding the use of packet drops.

WRED operates very similar with ECN as it does without. The difference happens when WRED chooses a packet to be discarded. With ECN enabled, instead of discarding the packet, WRED marks a couple of bits in the TCP header and forward the packet as normal to the receiver. This process is defined by RFC 3168 - when the sender receives the forwarded packet with these bits set, it reduces its CWND by 50%. The bits marked are the lower two bits of the DS Field, where the upper 6 bits are used for DSCP.

{% include image.html file="ecn-bits.png" %}

Here is an overview of ECN operation followed by some key points.

{% include image.html file="ecn-operation.png" %}

- routers, not the TCP endpoints, notice congestion and want the TCP senders to slow down
- ECN support is negotiated between endpoints by setting the ECN bits to 01 or 10. ECN bits set to 00 signify that ECN is not supported.
- When a WRED / ECN enabled router predicts congestion instead of discarding the packet it sets the ECN bits to 11 and continues forwarding the packet toward the receiver.
- When the TCP receiver receives the packet and sees ECN set to 11, the receiver sets the Explicit Congestion Experienced (ECE) flag in the next TCP segment it send back to the TCP sender.
- when the TCP sender receives the TCP segment back with the ECE flag set, it reduces its CWND by 50%
- in its next TCP segment sent, the TCP sender sets the *Congestion Window Reduced* (CWR) flag, letting the TCP receiver know that it received the ECE notification

Overall, this is a better process than the discarding beghvior of WRED. However, both endpoints must support ECN in their implementations, a requirement that was not present with WRED alone. If one of the clients did not support ECN and had its ECN bits set to 00, then even if ECN is configured on the router, the router will operate in WRED only mode, as it sees that the endpoints cannot support ECN.

Configuration is straightforward with just one additional command.
```
R1(config)# policy-map TO_R5
R1(config-pmap)# class class-default
R1(config-pmap-c)# fair-queue
R1(config-pmap-c)# random-detect ecn
R1(config-pmap-c)# random-detect precedence 1 1 40 4
R1(config-pmap-c)# end
```
You see the keyword **ecn** is added after the **random-detect** command.
