---
name: 6.14
title: 6.14 - MQC Class-Based Generic Traffic Shaping
short-title: MQC Class-Based Generic Traffic Shaping
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.14.html
folder: qos
---
#### Traffic Shaping Overview
Traffic shaping allows packets to *conform* to a traffic contract. At times when a sending device is sending packets at a rate that would exceed the contracted rate, it can simply slow down its transmission rather than having to discard packets. This process of sending packets more slowly is called *traffic shaping*. One classic reason to chose to shape traffic is if the device at the other end is policing. Typically the service provider polices using an ingress policer, so the customer edge router should be shaping on its egress interface.

Shaping only makes sense when the physical clock rate of transmission exceeds a traffic contract. Routers can only send bits out an interface at the physical clock rate. To have the average bit rate, over time, be lower than the clock rate, the router just has to send some packets for some specified period, and then not send packets for another time period. In other words, to average sending packets at 1/2 the physical link speed, the router should simply send packets 1/2 of the time and not send packets the other 1/2 of the time.

Cisco provides four mechanisms for shaping traffic: Class-Based Traffic Shaping, Generic Traffic Shaping (GTS), Distributed Class-Based Shaping and Frame Relay Traffic Shaping. Class-Based traffic shaping is done with the **shape** command in MQC while GTS is implemented with the **traffic-shape** command. The main two we are worried about for CCIE is GTS and CB Shaping. For GTS, the shaping queue is a weighted fair queue. WIth CB Shaping, GTS can be configured on a class rather than an access-control list. With Class Based shaping the default shaping queue is FIFO, but can optionally be configured as CBWFQ and you can also combine WRED with the shaper. Class-Based shaping can be configured on any interface that supports GTS.

We need to learn some basic shaping terminology as well.

**Tc** is the time interval, measured in milliseconds, over which the committed burst rate (Bc) can be sent. With many shaping tools Tc = $$\frac{Bc}{CIR}$$ . For many shaping tools the value defaults to 125 ms.

**Bc** is the committed burst size, measured in bits. This is the amount of traffic that can be sent over the interval Tc.

**Be** is the excess burst size, measured in bits. This is the number of bits beyond Bc that can be sent after a period of inactivity.

**CIR** is the traffic contract rate, in bits per second.

**Shaped Rate** is the rate, in bits per second, to which a particular configuration wants to shape the traffic.

Let's take an example where the Tc is at the default 125 ms (.125 seconds), and we our CIR is 64 kbps on a 128 kbps circuit. Bc will be the amount of traffic, in bits, that can be sent each Tc interval. Here is the calculation:

Bc = Tc * CIR

Bc = .125 seconds * 64000 $$\frac{bits}{seconds}$$ = 8000 bits.

Most of the time, when configuring shaping, you specify the shaping rate and optionally the Bc. If you do specify the Bc, then IOS changes the Tc so that the formula is valid. You never directly configure Tc.

One thing to note. When dealing with delay sensitive traffic, a Tc of 125 ms is way too large. If a VoIP packet were to arrive ata shaper and the previous Bc traffic had just been set, it might have to wait over 100ms to be sent. Therefore, Cisco recommends that you configure Bc such that Tc is 10ms or less when working with delay sensitive traffic.

Excess burst, or Be, adds more room to the token bucket. WIthout Be, the token bucket always starts at Bc tokens, even if during the previous Tc interval the shaper did not use all Bc bits. With excess burst, the bucket will now hold Bc + Be tokens.

Where do we shape when it comes to interfaces, subinterfaces, and VCs? Shaping tools can be applied to all three, but where we shape will determine the traffic shaping behavior. The answer is we typically shape at the VC or subinterface level, because they exist to separate traffic and we most likely want to shap differently based on that traffic separation. Each subinterface (really shaping queue if sharing same shaper among multiple subinterfaces) would have its own shaping queue which feeds into a single hardware queue.

We tocuched upon this previously. With GTS, the only queue option is WFQ. With CB shaping, the default is FIFO, but we can optionally set the queue to WFQ, CBWFQ, or LLQ. As with other queues, packets are held in the shaping queue only if there is a reason why the packet needs to wait. If the TX-Ring is empty, packets do not need to visit the shaping queue before being transmitted.


#### Shaping Configuration
To configure GTS, we just use an access-list to specify traffic, set the bit-rate and apply it to an interface.
```
R1(config)# access-list 10 permit 192.168.17.0 0.0.0.255
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# traffic-shape group 10 64000
R1(config-if)# end
```
The GTS shaper always works in the outbound direction.

Using Class Bssed shaping with GTS gives us much greater flexibility and ease of configuration as we configure it using MQC. Here is an example of basic Class-Based Shaping.
```
R1(config)# policy-map R5_SHAPER
R1(config-pmap)# class class-default
R1(config-pmap-c)# shape average 64000
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# service-policy out R5_SHAPER
R1(config-if)# end
```

Now we will look at using CBWFQ inside GTS, which is just an extension of the previous CB shaper configuration.
```
R1(config)# policy-map R5_SHAPER
R1(config-pmap)# class class-default
R1(config-pmap-c)# shape average 64000
R1(config-pmap-c)# fair-queue
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# service-policy out R5_SHAPER
R1(config-if)# end
```
