---
name: 6.16
title: 6.16 - MQC Single-Rate Three-Color Policer
short-title: MQC SIngle-Rate Three-Color Policer
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.16.html
folder: qos
---
#### How Policing Works
Policers can be more complicated than a shaper. Policers work based on a metering process to effectively measure the byte-rate of arriving packets. Based on that byte-rate, the policer will allow a packet to pass, drop the packet, or re-mark the packet with a different IP Precedence or DSCP value.

If you want CB Policing to decide if a packet either conforms or exceeds the contract, it will use a single Token bucket just like CB Shaping (called a two-color policer). However, CB Policing can be configured to use 3 categories as well: conforming, exceeding, and violation. Exceeding means it is using up excess burst capacity (Be) while violating means it is totally outside the contract. If using all 3 categories the policer is called a three-color policer, and it uses two token buckets.

There is another variation of CB Policing that has a dual-rate policer, where the CIR and the Peak Information Rate (PIR) are being monitored. This is referred to as a Dual-Rate, Three-color policer.

##### Single-Rate, Two-Color (1 Bucket)
With policing, each token represents a single byte. When the policer wants to decide what action to take on a packet, it looks to the token bucket. If there are enough tokens to allow the packet to pass, the policer will "spend" the tokens, removing them from the bucket. Unlike CB shaping, policing replenishes tokens in response to a packet arriving at the policing function, rather that at some regular time interval (Tc). The number of tokens placed back into the bucket after a packet arrives is:
$$\frac{(Current_packet_arrival_time - Previous_packet_arrival_time) * Police_rate}{8}$$

The packet arrival times are in seconds, and the police rate is in bits per second. Division by 8 converts the results in bits to bytes, since 1 token = 1 byte.

A quick example would be if our policing rate is 64 Kbps or 64,000 bps. This equals 8,000 bytes per second. So if 1 second had elapsed between packet arrivals, 8,000 tokens would be replenished into the bucket. If .1 seconds had elapsed, 800 tokens would be replenished.

A single-rate two color policer is easy to understand in relation to its decision on what to do with a packet when it arrives at the policer:
- if the number of bytes in the packet is less than or equal to the number of tokens in the bucket, the packet conforms. The CB policer removes tokens from the bucket equal to the number of bytes in the packet, and performs the action for the packets that conform to the contract.
- if the number of bytes in the packet is greater than the number of tokens in the bucket, the packet exceeds the contract. CB Policing does not remove tokens from the bucket, and performs the action for packets that exceed the contract

##### Single-Rate, Three-Color (2 Buckets)
If you want the policer to support excess burst (Be), the policer must use two token buckets. By using two token buckets, CB Policing can categorize packets into three groups: Conform, Exceed, and Violate. With two buckets, when the token Bc bucket is replenished when a packet arrives, excess tokens are not spilled and wasted but instead fall into the second bucket. There is a separate Bc and Be bucket with this design. This is how it works:
1. If the number of bytes in the packet is less than or equal to the number of tokens in the Bc Bucket, the packet conforms. CB Policing removes tokens from the Bc Bucket equal to the number of bytes in the packet.
2. If the packet does not conform and the number of bytes in the packet is less than or equal to the number of tokens in the Be Bucket, the packet exceeds. CB Policing removes tokens from the Be Bucket equal to the number of bytes in the packet.
3. If the packet neither conforms nor exceeds, it violates the traffic contract. CB Policing does not remove tokens from either bucket.

##### Dual-Rate Three-Color (2 Buckets)
Dual Token Buckets with Dual-rate policing allows you to set two different sustained rates. Packets that fall under the lower rate, the CIR, conform to the traffic contract. A second sustained rate, the Peak Information Rate (PIR) defines a traffic rate above CIR. Packets that exceed the CIR, but fall below the PIR, are considered to exceed the contract, but not violate it. Packets that exceed the PIR violate the contract.

The token refilling process is different than we have seen before. There are two buckets, teh CIR bucket and the PIR bucket. Both buckets are filled upon arrival of a packet that needs to be policed. However the PIR bucket is filled directly and does not have to rely on spillage from the CIR bucket. Essentially this means that the PIR bucket does not have to rely on a period of low or no activity to get more tokens. Also note that any tokens that spill from either bucket are wasted.

The buckets are filled based on the arrival time of packets and the respective Bc and Be values. The result is that the PIR bucket always has more tokens to use than the CIR bucket. Here is the logic of the policer.

1. If the number of bytes in the packet is less than or equal to the number of tokens in the CIR Bucket, the packet conforms. CB Policing removes tokens from the CIR Bucket equal to the number of bytes in the packet. CB Policing also removes the same number of tokens from the PIR bucket.
2. If the packet does not conform and the number of bytes in the packet is less than or equal to the number of tokens in the PIR Bucket, the packet exceeds. CB Policing removes tokens from the PIR Bucket equal to the number of bytes in the packet.
3. If the packet neither conforms nor exceeds, it violates the traffic contract. CB Policing does not remove tokens from either bucket.

#### Single-Rate Three-Color (2 bucket)
Now, getting back to our post topic, we need to review the configuration for the Single-Rate, Three-Color policer. CB Policing always performs policing based on three separate actions for packets that conform, exceed, or violate the traffic contract. For each category, CB policing can perform a variety of actions. The typical actions are to (1) transmit the packet, (2) drop the packet, or (3) remark the packet and then transmit. Since CB policing uses MCQ and is class-based, policing can be applied to only a subset of the traffic if needed.

The **police** command is used inside a policy map where you specify the policing rate in bps, the Bc in bytes and the Be in bytes. We will walk full a full MCQ configuration.
```
R1(config)# class-map VOIP
R1(config-cmap)# match dscp EF
R1(config-cmap)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# class class-default
R1(config-pmap-c)# fair-queue
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# exit
R1(config)# policy-map POLICER
R1(config-pmap)# class VOIP
R1(config-pmap-c)# police CIR 128000 bc 16000 be 12000 conform-action transmit exceed-action set-dscp-transmit 0 violate-action drop
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# class class-default
R1(config-pmap-c)# police CIR 128000 bc 16000 be 12000 conform-action transmit exceed-action transmit violate-action drop
R1(config-pmap-c)# exit
R1(config-pmap)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# service-policy out POLICER
R1(config-if)# end
```

The difference between a single-rate two-color policer and three-color policer is the presence of the **violate-action** subcommand and/or a Be greater than zero is set on a three-color policer.
