---
name: 6.24
title: 6.24 - Advanced HTTP Classification with NBAR
short-title: Advanced HTTP Classification with NBAR
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.24.html
folder: qos
---
We have seen previously that NBAR is a classification engine that recognizes and classifies a wide variety of protocols and applications. It is useful in combination with MQC, where traffic having certain characteristics matched by NBAR can then be treated in a particular manner.

Using the **match protocol** class map subcommand, NBAR can be used to classify traffic. NBAR is enabled on a per interface basis.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip nbar protocol-discovery
R1(config-if)# exit
```
You then create a class map in normal MQC fashion, matching the protocol and any defined characteristics. In this topic, we are talking about HTTP classification, so the full command is:
```
R1(config)# class-map HTTP_CLASSIFY
R1(config-cmap)# match protocol http url <pattern>
R1(config-cmap)# exit
```
Matching on the pattern is case insensitive. The engine matches the pattern against the directory path and file name in the URL, not the host name! To match on the host name, use the **host** keyword instead of **url**.

You can use a few wildacrds in the pattern:
- **\*** matches any pattern
- **?** matches any single character
- **[]** will match a range of characters, for example, [abc] will match a, b , or c
- **\|** is the logical OR

When you apply a policy-map that contains a **match protocol** statement, the system starts the NBAR classification engine on the interface. If the port is non-standard, you can change it to the new port.

When the discovery engine sees a TCP SYN packet in the matching session, it starts the internal state machine, trying to parse the packet flow. Every new packet in the flow is inspected, regardless of direction. NBAR does not classify a flow instantly, it may take some packet exchanges before the engine completely identifies the flow. Once identified, the flow gets tagged for both ingress and egress. When the engines sees a TCP FIN or TCP RST, NBAR will stop monitoring the flow.

One last item, with HTTP, it is always recommended to apply the service policy in the direction of the HTTP GETs.
