---
name: 6.25
title: 6.25 - Layer 2 QoS
short-title: Layer 2 QoS
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: written
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.25.html
folder: qos
---
QoS is needed at Layer 2 to protect equipment buffers from being overrun. This can occur with micro-bursts of traffic all hitting a switch at the same time. Adding bandwidth alone will not remedy this problem.

Classification and marking at Layer 2 takes place in the 3-bit User Priority field called class of service (CoS), which resides inside the header of an Ethernet frame. It is important to remember that these bits exist inside Ethernet frames only when 802.1Q trunking is enabled.

Switches have the ability to translate the tag of a CoS Ethernet frame to the IP Precedence or DSCP value of an IP packet. The mechanisms used for this translation are maps that translate from DSCP to CoS and vice versa. To see the map on a switch, use **show mls qos map cos-dscp**.

We spoke previously about setting the trust boundry for QoS in a network. On a switch, to trust the CoS value reecived fro all frames, use the **mls qos trust cos** interface configuration command. Likewise, to trust the DSCP value received on an interface, use the **mls qos trust dscp** command. When a Cisco phone is involved it becomes more complicated, as there may be a computer attached to the phone whose marking you do not want to trust. In this scenario, use the **mls qos trust device cisco-phone** interface command. This command uses CDP to determine if there is a Cisco phone attached to the interface.

You can also specify the CoS value of packets received on an interface. You would typically do this if the device on the other end had no way to mark the frames, but yet the traffic from it needed to be prioritized.

MCQ can also be utilized to classify an dmark packets on some switch platforms. You could use these tools if you needed to get more granular on traffic coming from a trusted device that could not mark packets on its own. Perhaps you have a server that is a web server but also hosts streaming video. If you wanted to only prioritize the video, you would need MQC tools to accomplish. You can deploy classification and marking models per interface or per VLAN.

The hardware queues on a switch are again hardware dependednt. A Cisco Catalyst 2950 has a single ingress receive queue but has 4 egress transmit queues per FastEthernet port. The Catalyst 3570 has two ingress receive queues and four egress transmit queues. These queues are necesarry as the total inbound or outbound bandwidth of all the ports on the switch can exceed the bandwidth of the stack or internal ring of the switch fabric. Both the ingress and egress queues of a Catalyst 3750 are serviced by a shaped round-robin (SRR) scheduling algorithm. SRR can be configured in shaped or sharing modes.

In shaped mode, the egress queues are guaranteed a percentage of the bandwidth and they are rate limited to that amount. Shaped traffic does not use more than the allocated bandwidth even if the link is idle. SRR shaping is configured with the **srr-queue bandwidth shape** interface command.

In shared mode, the ingress or egress queues share the bandwidth among them to the configured weights. The bandwidth is guaranteed at this level, but not limited to it. SRR sharing is configured with the **srr-queue bandwidth share** interface command.

You can also configure a single priority queue - one for ingress and one for egress. This queue is always serviced ahead of the other queues. It is configured with the **priority-queue** interface command. With respect to the scheduling hierarchy, priority mode overrides both shared and shaped mode, while shaped mode overrides shared mode.

The Catalyst switches also support weighted tail-drop (WTD) congestion avoidance. It is used to manage queue lengths and to provide drop preferences for different traffic classifications.


