---
name: 6.3
title: 6.3 - Selective Packet Discard
short-title: Selective Packet Discard
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.3.html
folder: qos
---
All packets to be processed by the router CPU through process switching must be queued in the interface input queue. Without SPD there is no intelligent handling of packets in this queue. Packets are queued until the queue reaches its maximum length and then additional packets are indiscriminately tail dropped. Although administrators can configure the length of this queue per physical interface using the hold-queue value in interface configuration command, a global pool of buffers is used for temporary packet storage.

SPD was created to provide preferential treatment during congestion of this interface-to-process-switching queue. At its most basic level, SPD provides extended buffering for control plane traffic. Known as the SPD headroom, this additional queue depth is typically reserved for traffic with IP Precedence equal to 6 (such as BGP), the Connectionless Network Service (CLNS) based routing protocol Intermediate System-to-Intermediate System (IS-IS), and Layer 2 keepalives.

Over time, it became clear that this simple method of protection was insufficient. The functionality of SPD was then expanded to include extended headroom, which is reserved for IP-based Interior Gateway Protocols (IGPs), Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP), IS-IS, and Layer 2 keepalives; all IP Precedence 6 traffic was specifically relegated to the headroom. This implementation gives IGPs, HSRP, and Layer 2 keepalives queuing priority over BGP, thereby helping to protect the stability of the IGPs and Layer 2 during BGP reconvergence.

There is also a lesser-known function of SPD: as well as providing additional queue depth for control plane traffic, SPD attempts to manage the interface input queue by proactively dropping packets that cannot be queued into headroom or extended headroom. This is implemented using two thresholds—min-threshold and max-threshold—that are configured or derived on a global basis but applied individually to the input queue of each interface.

[Here](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/security-center/selective-packet-discard.html) is an article from Cisco on the topic.

This is platform specific and may not be on lower end routers and switches. There are several related configuration commands.
```
R1(config)# spd enable
R1(config)# ip spd queue min-threshold 32768
R1(config)# ip spd queue max-threshold 65534
R1(config)# ip spd mode aggressive
```

The **agressive** keyword is used to enable the automatic filtering of malformed packets from the interface input queue.