---
name: 6.5
title: 6.5 - Generic TCP/UDP Header Compression
short-title: Generic TCP/UDP Header Compression
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.5.html
folder: qos
---
Header compression works well when the Payload size is small, becuase then the Header is a larger percentage of the overall size of the packet, resulting in a higher compression ration when the header is compressed. Header compression relies on the fact that headers are predictable. TCP compression can reduce the header size from 40 bytes down to 3 - 5 bytes. RTP header compression reduces the IP, UDP, and RTP headers from 40 bytes down to 2 - 4 bytes. Cisco routers use 20 bytes of data for G.729 codecs, so with header compression the packet goes from 60 bytes down to 24 bytes.

There is an interface command you can use to enable header compression. The command is **ip tcp header-compression**. There are optional parameters that can be provided to narrow down or expand the packets whose headers will be compressed. By default, the **ip tcp header-compression** interface command will compress headers on outbound TCP traffic. The **passive** keyword tells IOS to only compress outbound traffic if incoming TCP traffic on the same interface is compressed. The **iphc-format** keyword is used on PPP or HDLC interfaces to indicate that RTP header compression should also be used. This means that UDP headers will be compressed as well. With the **ietf-format** keyword, only TCP headers will be compressed on HDLC interfaces, but on PPP interfaces where the keyword is applied, both TCP and RTP headers will be compressed.

We can also optionally configure the maximum size of the compressed header using the **ip header-compression max-header \<size\>** interface command. Finally, we can limit the number of connections that perform header compression using the **ip tcp compression-connections \<number\>** command.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip tcp header-compression passive
R1(config-if)# ip header-compression max-header 100
R1(config-if)# ip tcp compression-connections 32
R1(config-if)# end
```
For UDP connections, you need 1 connection per direction, but for TCP, since it is connection oriented, you only need 1 connection total. So if you were connecting to 16 TCP connections, you would specify 16 connections but if you were connecting to 16 RTP connections, you would have to specify **ip tcp compression-connections 32**.
