---
name: 6.6
title: 6.6 - MLP Link Fragmentation and Interleaving
short-title: MLP Link Fragmentation and Interleaving
category: 6 QoS
collection: qos
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: qos_sidebar
permalink: 6.6.html
folder: qos
---
Link fragmentation and interleaving tools directly lower delay by defeating a side effect of a small transmit clock speed, namely serialization delay. Remember that serialization delay is the amount of time it takes to send a frame over a physical link. The faster the link, the lower the serialization delay.

If a router begins sending a frame out of an interface, it send the entire frame. If the frame being sent is large and there is a small frame waiting to be transmitted, it must wait until the larger frame has been serialized before its transmission will begin.

LFI tools attack this serialization delay problem by ensuring that large packets do not delay smaller packets. It accomplishes this by dividing larger packets and interleaving later-arriving small packets between transmissions of the fragments of the larger packet.

With LFI fragmentation occurs first. The fragmented packets maintain their original DSCP markings. After fragmentation, if the Tx Queue is full and queuing is configured, the queuing tool of the interface classifies the frames into their respective queues. Now that the packets are in their queues, the scheduler logic will work to determine which packets get sent to the Tx-Ring next.

{% include image.html file="LFI.png" %}

As you can see, interleaving occurs because the scheduler decides to send packets from one queue between fragments of a packet in another queue.

We must answer the question as to how large should the fragments be to reduce serialization delay to an optimal level? Typically this is done backwards by specifying the maximum serialization delay that your traffic can tolerate. MLP LFI then calculates the fragment size based on Max_Delay * Bandwidth. You define the max-delay usinf ***ppp multilink fragment-delay**.

Cisco recommends LFI be used on links with 768 kbps clock rate and below. When you go above that, the maximum fragment size to achieve the recommended 10ms serialization delay would have to be over 1500 bytes, so it typically would not be needed. With just normal queuing tools you could ensure that VoIP traffic is trasnmitted within a reasonable time.

Here is a sample configuration:
```
R1(config)# interface Multilink9
R1(config-if)# bandwidth 128
R1(config-if)# fair-queue
R1(config-if)# ppp multilink
R1(config-if)# multilink-group 9
R1(config-if)# ppp multilink fragment-delay 10
R1(config-if)# ppp multilink interleave
R1(config-if)# end
```
