---
name: 1.4.3.1
title: 1.4.3.1 - RSTP Convergence Optimizations
short-title: RSTP Convergence Optimizations
exam: both
category: Layer 2
collection: Layer2
layout: page
sidebar: layer2_sidebar
permalink: 1.4.3.1.html
folder: layer2
---
Before we get into Convergence timers, we will first explain some differences between 802.1D and 802.1w.

The 802.1D disabled, blocking, and listening states were merged into a unique 802.1w *discarding* state. This means we are left with only 3 port states in RSTP: discarding, learning, or forwarding. The port is only learning MAC addresses while in the learning or forwarding states.

The port roles in 802.1w has expanded. The Root Port and Designated Port remain while the Alternate and Backup ports roles have been added. The Alternate and Backup states correspond to the Blocking state of 802.1D. You must remember that the blocked port must continue to receive BPDUs in order to stay in a blocked state.

The Alternate Port receives more useful BPDUs from another bridge and is a blocked port. The Backup Port receives more useful BPDUs from the same bridge it is on and is a blocked port. Backup Ports are rarely used as you would need a hub for the need situation.

The idea of an Alternate Port is essentially how 802.1D UplinkFast operates. The alternate port provides an alternate path to the root bridge and therefore can replace the *root port* in case it fails.

The RSTP BPDU uses the leftover 6 bits of the flag byte to encode the role and the state of the port that originates the BPDU.

{% include image.html file="RSTP-BPDU.png" %}

### New BPDU Handling
#### BPDUs sent Differently
With RSTP, BPDUs are no longer simply relayed, and are sent every hello-time. With 802.1D, a non-root bridge only generated BPDUs if there was a change in the topology. In 802.1w, all switches generate BPDUs and the Hellos are used as a keep alive mechanism. On any given port, if Hellos are not received for three consecutive Hello periods, protocol information can be immediately aged out. If a bridge fails to receive BPDUs from a neighbor, it is certain that the connection that that neighbor is lost. This is opposed to 802.1D where the path might have been anywhere on the path to the Root, since only the Root Bridge sent out BPDUs.

#### Inferior BPDU Handling
With 802.1D, if inferior BPDUs were heard on a root or designated port, the switch would wait until its max\_age timer expired before responding. With 802.1w, if a bridge receives an inferior BPDU to the current root and it knows the current Root is alive and reachable, it will not wait for its max\_age timer to expire but instead will immediately send information indicating it can reach the Root Bridge. This is similar to the BackboneFast 802.1D enhancement.

### Rapid Transition to Forwarding State
This is the most important feature added in 802.1w. This gives rapid STP the ability to actively confirm that a port can safely transition to the forwarding state *without* having to rely on any timer configuration.

#### Edge Ports
The EdgePort corresponds to the 802.1D PortFast feature. The idea is that all ports directly connected to end stations cannot create bridging loops in the network. Therefore, there is no danger in allowing these ports to skip the listening and learning stages and transition directly to a forwarding state.

An Edge Port that receives a BPDU immediately loses its Edge Port designation and becomes a regular STP port.

#### Link Type
RSTP can only achieve rapid transition to the forwarding state on edge ports and on point-to-point links. The link type is automatically derived from the duplex mode of a port. A port that operates in full duplex is assumed to be point-to-point and a port that operates in half-duplex is considered to be on a shared link by default. If for some reason you need to declare a particular interface as having a point-to-point link, that process is outlined below.
```
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/2
SW1(config-if)# spanning-tree link-type point-to-point
SW1(config-if)# end
```

#### Convergence with 802.1D
Spanning tree is very efficient in how it calculates the new topology of the network. The only problem now is that twice the forward delay must elapse before a new link ends up in the forwarding state. This means 30 seconds of disruption of traffic because the 8021.D algorithm lacks a feedback mechanism to clearly advertise that the network converges in a matter of seconds.

#### Convergence with 802.1w
The final topology calculation with 802.1w is the exact same as 802.1D. Only the steps have changed which result in faster convergence.

An important process is called sync. This is basically a step down the tree in which a switch puts its non-edge designated ports into a blocked state when it hears a superior BPDU. Once the two ports that are in the sync process agree on their roles, the sync process works its way down the tree to the non-edge designated ports that were previously blocked. Notice this whole process occurs without the use of any timers. The only new mechanism introduced by RSTP is the acknowledgment that a switch can send on its new root port in order to authorize an immediate transition to the forwarding state., bypassing the 802.1D listening and learning stages.

This negotiation and sync process is only possible on switches connected by point-to-point links.

A port is considered in sync if it meets either of these criteria:
- The port is in a blocking state, which means discarding in a stable topology
- The port is an edge port

If a designated discarding port sends a proposal and does not receive an agreement, it slowly transitions to the forwarding state, and falls back to the traditional 802.1D listening-learning sequence. This can occur if the remote bridge does not understand RSTP BPDUs or if the port on the remote bridge is blocking.

### New Topology Change Mechanisms
In 802.1D, once a bridge is aware of a topology change in the network, it sends a TCN up to the root bridge. The root bridge then sets the TC flag bit on all BPDUs it sends out, which are of course relayed through the STP domain. When a bridge receives a BPDU with the TC flag bit set, it reduces its bridging-table aging time to *forward delay* seconds. This ensures a relatively quick flush of any stale information.

#### RSTP Topology Change Detection
The topology change mechanism has been remodeled in RSTP. First, the only event that prompts a topology change is a non-edge port moving to the forwarding state - a loss of connectivity is not considered a topology change anymore. When a RSTP bridge detects a topology change, these occur:
- It starts the TC While timer with a value equal to twice the Hello time for all its non-edge designated ports and its root port, if necessary
- It flushes the MAC addresses associated with all these ports

As long as the TC While timer runs on a port, the BPDUs sent out of that port have the TC bit set. BPDUs are also sent on the root port while the timer is active.

#### Topology Change Propagation
When a bridge receives a BPDU with the TC bit set from a neighbor, these occur:
- It clears the MAC addresses learned on all its ports, except the one that receives the topology change
- It starts the TC While timer and sends BPDUs with TC set on all its designated ports and its root port.

Note that RSTP no longer uses the specific TCN BPDU, unless a legacy bridge needs to be notified.

Because of this new process, the TCN floods very quickly across the whole network. You can see that the initiator of the topology change floods this information throughout the network, as opposed to 802.1D where only the Root Bridge could propagate this information. This process is much faster than 802.1D. There is no need to wait for the root bridge to be notified and then maintain the topology change state for the whole network for *max\_age plus forward delay* seconds.

In just a few seconds, most of the entries of the CAM tables of the entire VLAN flush. This approach results in potentially more temporary flooding, but on the other hand it clears potential stale information that prevents rapid connectivity restitution.

### Compatibility with 802.1D
RSTP is able to interoperate with legacy STP protocols. However, the fast convergence benefits of 802.1w are lost when it interacts with legacy bridges.

Each *port* maintains a variable that defines the protocol to run on the corresponding segment. A migration delay timer of 3 seconds also starts when the port comes up. When this timer runs, the current STP or RSTP mode associated to the port is locked. As soon as the migration delay expires, the port adapts to the mode that corresponds to the *next* BPDU it receives. If the port *changes* its mode of operation as a result of a BPDU received, the migration delay restarts. This limits the possibility of the mode flapping.

802.1D bridges ignore RSTP BPDUs and drop them.

Note that after a RSTP bridge has transitioned to legacy STP due to a legacy bridge being turned on, if that legacy bridge is later removed, the RSTP bridge does not automatically revert back to RSTP. For this rare case, manual intervention is required.
