---
name: 1.4.4.4
title: 1.4.4.4 - MST and CST/PVST+ Interoperability
short-title: MST and CST/PVST+ Interoperability
exam: both
category: Layer 2
collection: Layer2
layout: page
sidebar: layer2_sidebar
permalink: 1.4.4.4.html
folder: layer2
---
When a switch running PVST+ is connected to a switch running MST and part of a MST region, the PVST+ Switch only sees the BPDUs of the IST. It does not see the individual mappings of VLANs to instances. All BPDUs will come from the IST root, not from the individual MSTI Root Bridges.

#### Interoperability with 802.1D
A switch that runs MST supports a built-in protocol migration feature that enables it to interoperate with 802.1D STP switches. If this switch receives an 802.1D configuration BPDU (a BPDU with the protocol version set to 0), it sends only 802.1D BPDUs on that port. In addition, an MST switch can detect that a port is at the boundary of a region when it receives an 802.1D BPDU, an MST BPDU (Version 3) associated with a different region, or an 802.1w BPDU (Version 2).

However, the switch does not automatically revert to the MST mode if it no longer receives 802.1D BPDUs because it cannot detect whether the 802.1D switch has been removed from the link unless the 802.1D switch is the designated switch. A switch might also continue to assign a boundary role to a port when the switch to which this switch is connected has joined the region.

To restart the protocol migration process (force the renegotiation with neighboring switches), enter the **clear spanning-tree detected-protocols** command.

All Rapid PVST+ switches (and all 8021.D STP switches) on the link can process MST BPDUs as if they are 802.1w BPDUs. MST switches can send either Version 0 configuration and topology change notification (TCN) BPDUs or Version 3 MST BPDUs on a boundary port. A boundary port connects to a LAN, the designated switch of which is either a single spanning tree switch or a switch with a different MST configuration.

#### Interoperability with Rapid PVST+
MST interoperates with Rapid PVST+ with no need for user configuration. The PVST simulation feature enables this seamless interoperability. PVST simulation is enabled by default. That is, by default, all interfaces on the switch interoperate between MST and Rapid PVST+.

You have the option to disable interoperation with connected RPVST+ ports and this can be performed on a global or per port basis.
```
SW1(config)# no spanning-tree mst simulate past global
```

```
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/22
SW1(config-if) spanning-tree mst simulate past disable
SW1(config-if) exit
```

MSTP runs multiple MSTIs inside a region and maps them all to CIST on the border ports. The interoperation model needs to ensure that internal MSTI’s could be aware of changes in any of PVST+ trees. It’s hard to automatically map VLAN-bounded STP’s to the MSTI’s and so the simplest way to accomplish the desired behavior is to join ALL PVST+ trees with the CST.

By connecting PVST+ trees to the CST, the solution ensure that changes in any of PVST+ STP instances will affect the CST and all MSTIs as a consequence. While not the optimal solution, it ensures that no changes go unnoticed and no black holes occur in a single VLAN due to the topology changes. As with the IEEE STP, every tree in PVST+ domain perceives MSTP regions like virtual bridges with multiple boundary ports. A topology change in any of PVST+ trees will affect the CST and impact every MSTI instance in all MSTP regions. This behavior makes the MSTP topology less stable and fully exposed to changes in PVST+ domain.

The MSTP implementation simulates PVST+ by replicating CIST BPDUs on the link facing the PVST+ domain and sending those BPDUs on ALL VLANs active on the trunk. The MSTP switch consumes all BDPUs received from PVST+ domain and processes them using the CIST instance.

One important note. The MSTP domain should contain the bridge with the best Bridge ID, to ensure that the CIST Root is also the root for all PVST+ trees. In any other case, the MSTP border switch will complain and place the ports that receive superior BPDUs from PVST+ region in root-inconsistent state. To fix this issue, ensure that PVST+ domain does not have any bridges with Bridge IDs better than the CIST Root Bridge ID.
