---
name: 3.5.6.9
title: 3.5.6.9 - Per Neighbor Prefix Limit
short-title: Per Neighbor Prefix Limit
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.6.9.html
folder: eigrp
---
The EIGRP Prefix Limit Support feature introduces the capability to limit the number of prefixes per VRF that are accepted from a specific peer or to limit all prefixes that are accepted by an Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) process through peering and/or redistribution. This feature is designed to protect the local router from external misconfiguration that can negatively impact local system resources, for example a peer that is misconfigured to redistribute full Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routing tables into EIGRP. This feature is enabled under the IPv4 VRF address-family configuration.

This feature is supported only under the IPv4 VRF address family and can be used only to limit the number of prefixes that are accepted through a VRF. It can be configured on a per peer or a per instance basis.

#### Per Peer

When this feature is enabled and the maximum-prefix limit has been exceeded, the router will tear down the peering session, clear all routes that were learned from the peer, and then place the peer in a penalty state for the default or user-defined time period. After the penalty time period expires, normal peering will be reestablished.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf RED
R1(config-router-af)# neighbor 10.0.0.1 maximum-prefix 10000 80 warning-only
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```
The above example configures a maximum-prefix limit of 10,000 for the 10.0.0.1 neighbor and warning messages to be displayed when 80% of the limit has been reached.

If you do not supply a neighbor IP address before the **maximum-prefix** command, then the maximum-prefix will apply to all EIGRP neighbors.

#### Per Redistribution
This feature can also be configured to limit the number of prefixes that are accepted into the EIGRP topology table through redistribution from the Routing Information Base (RIB). All sources of redistribution are processed cumulatively. When the maximum-prefix limit is exceeded, all routes learned through redistribution are discarded and redistribution is suspended for the default or user-defined time period. After the penalty time period expires, normal redistribution will occur.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf RED
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute maximum-prefix 10000 80 reset-time 10 restart 2
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```
The above configuration will set a prefix max of 10,000 and will display a warning message when 80% of the maximum is hit. It also sets the reset-time and the restart time to custom values.

#### Per EIGRP Process
This feature can also be configured to protect the router at the EIGRP process level. When this feature is configured at the EIGRP process level, the maximum prefix limit is applied to all peering sessions and to route redistribution. When the maximum-prefix limit is exceeded, all sessions with the remote peers are torn down, all routes learned from remote peers are removed from the topology and routing tables, all routes learned from through redistribution are discarded, and redistribution and peering are suspended for the default or user-defined time period.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf RED
R1(config-router-af)# maximum-prefix 10000 80 warning-only reset-time 10 restart 2
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```

#### Warning Mode
This feature can be set to run in warning only mode by using the **warning-only** keyword in the configuration. Only syslog messages are generated when in this mode of operation. No actual session tear down or peering tear down occurs.

#### Timers
When the maximum-prefix limit is exceeded, peering and/or redistribution is suspended for a default or user-defined time period. If the maximum-prefix limit is exceeded too often, redistribution and/or peering will be suspended until the manual intervention is taken. This feature has 3 user-configurable timers and a dampening timer.

The **restart timer** determines how long the router will wait to form an adjacency or accept redistributed routes from the RIB after the maximum-prefix limit has been exceeded. The default restart-time period is 5 minutes.

The **restart counter** determines the number of times a peering session can be automatically reestablished after the peering session has been torn down or after the a redistributed routes have been cleared and relearned because the maximum-prefix limit has been exceeded. The default restart-count limit is 3. After the restart count limit has been crossed, you will need to enter the **clear ip route** or **clear ip eigrp neighbor** command to restore normal peering and/or redistribution.

The **reset timer** is used to configure the router to reset the restart count to 0 after the default or configured reset-time period has expired. This timer is designed to provide administrator with control over long and medium term accumulated penalties. The default reset-time period is 15 minutes.

Finally, the **dampening mechanism** is used to apply an exponential decay penalty to the restart-time period each time the maximum-prefix limit is exceeded. The half-life for the decay penalty is 150% of the default or user-defined restart-time value in minutes. This mechanism is designed to identify and suppress unstable peers. It is disabled by default.

#### Show Command
```
Router# show ip eigrp vrf RED accounting
IP-EIGRP accounting for AS(100)/ID(10.0.2.1) Routing Table: RED
Total Prefix Count: 4  States: A-Adjacency, P-Pending, D-Down
State Address/Source   Interface        Prefix   Restart  Restart/
Count     Count   Reset(s)
 P    Redistributed     ----               0           3         211
 A    10.0.1.2          Et0/0              2           0          84
 P    10.0.2.4          Se2/0              0           2         114
 D    10.0.1.3          Et0/0              0           3           0
```
