---
name: 3.5.4.2
title: 3.5.4.2 - HMAC SHA2-256bit
short-title: HMAC SHA2-256bit
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp\_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.4.2.html
folder: eigrp
---
HMAC SHA2-256bit Authentication is only supported in EIGRP named mode, and thus you have to be working in IOS 15.x at a minimum.  When you use the HMAC-SHA-256 authentication method, a shared secret key is configured on all devices attached to a common network. For each packet, the key is used to generate and verify a message digest that gets added to the packet. The message digest is a one-way function of the packet and the secret key.

If HMAC-SHA-256 authentication is configured in an EIGRP network, EIGRP packets will be authenticated using HMAC-SHA-256 message authentication codes. The HMAC algorithm takes as input the data to be authenticated (that is, the EIGRP packet) and a shared secret key that is known to both the sender and the receiver; the algorithm gives a 256-bit hash output that is used for authentication. If the hash value provided by the sender matches the hash value calculated by the receiver, the packet is accepted by the receiver; otherwise, the packet is discarded.

Typically, the shared secret key is configured to be identical between the sender and the receiver. To protect against packet replay attacks because of a spoofed source address, the shared secret key for a packet is defined as the concatenation of the user-configured shared secret (identical across all devices participating in the authenticated domain) with the IPv4 or IPv6 address (which is unique for each device) from which the packet is sent.

HMAC-SHA-256 beefs up the security by ensuring that authentication will not succeed if any of the following is true:
- The sender does not know the shared secret expected by the receiver
- The IP source address in the IP header is modified in transit
- Any of the EIGRP packet data is modified in transit

Here is a sample configuration.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp SAMPLE
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 autonomous-system 100
R1(config-router-af)# af-interface gig0/0
R1(config-router-af-interface)# authentication mode hmac-sha-256 7 password1
R1(config-router-af-interface)# end
```

SHA-256 does not support keys at this point so there is no support for multiple keys or key rollover as there is with MD5 Authentication.