---
name: 3.5.1.1
title: 3.5.1.1 - Network Statement
short-title: Network Statement
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp\_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.1.1.html
folder: eigrp
---
The **network** command will determine which interfaces will run on. The router will not build neighbor relationships or exchange routes over an interface with an IP address that isn’t included in a network command.

What about advertising routes? How does the **network** command affect route advertisement?

The router collects the IP address and subnet mask of every interface that has an IP address included through a **network** command and builds a list of connected subnets that need to be advertised.

So there are two different elements at play:
1. the **network** command defines the interfaces on which EIGRP will be enabled
2. the **network** command defines the connected subnets that will be advertised

To understand this distinction, think about a passive interface. If an interface is declared as passive, but its subnet is declared by a **network** command, then other interface will advertise the network attached to the interface, even though it is a passive interface.

You could also have the reverse situation. Let’s say an interface was enabled by the **network** command, but then a route filter was created preventing the connected network from being advertised out any interfaces. The interface is still active and will multicast updates and process inbound updates, but yet the network on that interface is not being advertised due to the filtering.

Using 0.0.0.0 as a wildcard mask will limit on the address specified as an interface on which to run EIGRP. When asked to prevent EIGRP from running on a newly enabled interface, you could use all 0’s for a wildcard mask on a network statement, use **passive-interface default**, use **neighbor** commands only to form neighbor relationships, or combinations of the above to limit the running of EIGRP on particular interfaces.