---
name: 3.5.6.6
title: 3.5.6.6 - Filtering with Administrative Distance
short-title: Filtering with Administrative Distance
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.6.6.html
folder: eigrp
---
The **distance** command can be used under the EIGRP router process to set the Administrative Distance of specific routers to something other than their advertised default. This applies to EIGRP Internal routes only. The distance can only be changed for *all* external routes.

You can have multiple distance commands defining multiple routes on which to alter the distance. An access list is used to define the routes and you can specify an IP address and mask for the advertising router.
```
R1(config)# ip access-list standard TEST1
R1(config-acl)# permit 172.16.103.0
R1(config)# ip access-list TEST2
R1(config-acl)# permit 172.16.133.0
R1(config-acl)# exit
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# distance 255 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255 TEST1
R1(config-router)# distance 80 0.0.0.0 255.1255.255.255 TEST2
```

An offset list will change the metric, while the distance command will change the administrative distance.

Each routing protocol selects the best route based on calculated metric and hands that route to the routing table. Since different routing protocols calculate metrics based on different criteria, different routing protocols running on the same router may hand the routing table different best routes to a destination. This is where Administrative Distance comes in. The router would use the route from the lower AD routing protocol.

You must also remember that prefix length comes into play as well. So if you had a route to 192.168.1.0/24 with an EIGRP metric of 262000, and OSPF metric of 5217, and a RIP metric of 4, then EIGRP would get installed due to lowest AD. However, if there was a route for 192.168.1.0/25 for RIP, then that route would also be installed and when routing to 192.168.1.1 the RIP route would win due to longest match.

Routes with an AD of 255 will not be installed in the routing table, so if you want to completely prevent a route from being learned via **distance**, use the
