---
name: 3.5.2.2
title: 3.5.2.2 - Modifying EIGRP Vector Attributes
short-title: Modifying EIGRP Vector Attributes
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.2.2.html
folder: eigrp
---
The 5 factors that contribute to the EIGRP metric should be memorized:
- bandwidth
- delay
- reliability
- load
- mtu

They appear in that order and should be memorized in that order. While there are five contributors to the metric, there are truly only two that are worth adjusting.

Reliability and Load have k=0 by default. Even if you were to adjust the k value so that it would contribute to the metric, there is an additional problem. There is nothing that updates the reliability or load, so when a path became less reliable or takes on too much load there would be no trigger for the network to converge to a better route. MTU also has a k value of 0 and would not make much sense to rely on for best path selection and convergence.

So that leaves us with bandwidth and delay. If *all* the routes out an interface need to have their metric altered, then bandwidth or delay are a logical choice to change the metric up or down to suit your needs. However, if only some routes out an interface need altered then route maps are a much better fit.

So which one should you change, bandwidth or delay?

Usually the answer will be delay, for a number of reasons. First, remember that bandwidth in the EIGRP metric is the *least* bandwidth across the *entire* link. Altering the bandwidth of an interface may or may not affect the metric of the routes advertised out the interface, depending on the bandwidth of other interfaces across the path.

Second, EIGRP also uses the bandwidth configured on an interface to determine the *pacing interval* between EIGRP packets. If you change the bandwidth parameter to influence path selection, you may be changing pacing intervals to such an extent that the convergence of the network will be put in jeopardy.

Delay can also be changed on a per interface basis. Since the delay value is cumulative, you know you will be affecting the metric calculation. FastEthernet has a default delay of 10 while Ethernet has a default delay of 100.

One important thing to note about delay is that the command is entered in *tens* of microseconds. However, when you do a **show interface**, the delay will be shown in microseconds. So if the delay shown was 20,000 and you wanted to increase the delay to 21,000 microseconds, you would enter the command below.
```
R1(config-if)# delay 2100
```
