---
name: 3.5.7.6
title: 3.5.7.6 - no next-hop self no ecmp-mode
short-title: no next-hop self no ecmp-mode
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.7.6.html
folder: eigrp
---
To enable the Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) to advertise routes with the local outbound interface address as the next hop, use the **ip next-hop-self** eigrp command in interface configuration mode or virtual network interface mode. To instruct EIGRP to use the received next hop instead of the local outbound interface address, use the no form of this command.

EIGRP, by default, sets the next-hop value to the local outbound interface address for routes that it is advertising, even when advertising those routes back out of the same interface on which they were learned. To change this default, you must use the **no ip next-hop-self eigrp** interface configuration command to instruct EIGRP to use the received next-hop value when advertising these routes.

The **no-ecmp-mode** option is an enhancement to the **no ip next-hop-self eigrp** command. When this option is enabled, all routes to a network in the EIGRP table are evaluated to check whether routes advertised from an interface were learned on the same interface. If a route advertised by an interface was learned on the same interface, the no ip next-hop-self eigrp configuration is honored and the received next hop is used to advertise this route. Disabling the IP next-hop self functionality is primarily useful in DMVPN spoke-to-spoke topologies.
```
Device(config)# interface tun 0
Device(config-if)# no ip next-hop-self eigrp 101 no-ecmp-mode
```
