---
name: 3.5.3.2
title: 3.5.3.2 - Manual Summarization
short-title: Auto-Summary
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.3.2.html
folder: eigrp
---
With EIGRP, manual summarization can be performed at any point in the network. It is enabled on a per interface basis with the **ip summary-address** command. It is enabled on the interface out of which you wish to advertise the summary. Going back to our previous example…

{% include image.html file="eigrp-autosum2.png" %}

This would be how we could advertise a summary out Fa0/0 on R1 toward R2 for the 1.1.1.0/24 network.
```
R1(config)# interface fa0/0
R1(config-if)# ip summary-address eigrp 100 1.1.1.0 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# exit
```
Note how when doing manual summarization, we do not have to summarize at classful boundaries. The EIGRP Summary Route installed will have an Administrative Distance of 5 by default. When that route is advertised to neighbors, the neighbors will install it as an internal EIGRP route with a default AD of 90. It is important to know that the Summary Route to Null0 will have an AD of 5. This gives connected and static routes the ability to have precedence over the summary routes to Null 0.

Unlike internal summarization, manual summarization will summarize both internal and *external* routes that fall into the range of addresses configured.

Summarization helps us reduce routing table size. It also helps us hide the topology and we will find out in EIGRP, hiding information is one of the best management tools we have in controlling convergence and active routes.
