---
name: 3.5.1.2
title: 3.5.1.2 - Multicast vs Unicast Updates
short-title: Multicast vs Unicast Updates
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp\_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.1.2.html
folder: eigrp
---
EIGRP neighbor relationships are typically created using the **network** command. After using the command in EIGRP router configuration mode, any interfaces having an IP address in the range declared by the network address and wildcard mask after the network statement begin sending *multicast* Hellos out of that interfaces. Any EIGRP routers that receive the multicast packets will attempt to form a neighbor relationship after receiving the multicast Hello. On Ethernet networks, this means any router connected to the same Layer 2 domain.

If you specify an explicit EIGRP neighbor via the **neighbor** command, then the router will begin sending unicast Hello packets toward that neighbor. The **neighbor** command must be configured on both routers in order for a neighbor relationship to form - if it is only configured on one the adjacency will not come up. Unlike RIP, the passive-interface command is not needed to suppress multicast hellos.

Using the **neighbor** command could possibly improve security on an EIGRP network. But there is a perilous side effect that you must remember. If you use the **neighbor** command, then the interface out of which unicast packets are sent is no longer capable of sending multicast Hellos, or processing inbound EIGRP multicast packets. If there are other EIGRP routers who are located off that interface, they will not form an EIGRP adjacency unless they are also specified on a **neighbor** statement. A\So you must always keep in mind that an EIGRP interface is not capable of sending both unicast and multicast packets.
