---
name: 3.5.5.7
title: 3.5.5.7 - Graceful Restart & NSF
short-title: Graceful Restart & NSF
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.5.7.html
folder: eigrp
---
Graceful Restart used in combination with Non-Stop Forwarding is a mechanism used to prevent routing protocol re-convergence during a supervisor switchover.  This can be used on devices that have separation of data and control planes with distributed line cards.

Traditionally, when a networking device restarts, all routing peers associated with that device detect the device has gone down, and routes from that peer are removed. The session is reestablished when the device completes the restart. This transition results in removal and reinsertion of routes, which could spread across multiple routing domains. In the past this was required because of the inability of the restarting device to forward traffic during the reload period. Today, dual processor systems that support Stateful Switch Over (SSO) or In-Service Software Upgrades (ISSU) can continue to forward traffic while restarting the control plane on the second processor. In this case, route removal and insertion caused by routing protocol restarts is no longer necessary, as they create unnecessary routing instabilities, which are detrimental to the overall network performance. GR and NSR suppress routing changes on peers to SSO-enabled devices during processor switchover events (SSO or ISSU), reducing network instability and downtime.

When GR is used, peer networking devices are informed, via protocol extensions prior to the event, of the SSO capable routers ability to perform graceful restart. The peer device must have the ability to understand this messaging. When a switchover occurs, the peer will continue to forward to the switching over router as instructed by the GR process for each particular protocol, even though in most cases the peering relationship needs to be rebuilt. Essentially, the peer router will give the switching over router a grace period to reestablish the neighbor relationship, while continuing to forward to the routes from that peer. GR is available today for protocols including OSPF, ISIS, EIGRP, LDP, RSVP-TE, and BGP. Standards are defined to ensure vendor interoperability.

The EIGRP Nonstop Forwarding Awareness feature allows an NSF-aware router that is running Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) to forward packets along routes known to a router performing a switchover operation or in a well-known failure condition. This capability allows the EIGRP peers of the failing router to retain the routing information that it has advertised and to continue using this information until the failed router resumes normal operation and is able to exchange routing information. The peering session is maintained throughout the entire NSF operation.

EIGRP NSF capabilities are exchanged by EIGRP peers in hello packets. An NSF-capable router notifies its neighbors that an NSF restart operation has started by setting the restart (RS) bit in a hello packet. When an NSF-aware router receives notification from an NSF-capable neighbor that an NSF-restart operation is in progress, both routers immediately exchange their topology tables. The NSF-aware router sends an end-of-table (EOT) update packet when the transmission of its topology table is complete. The NSF-aware router then performs the following actions to assist the NSF-capable router:
- Expires the EIGRP hello hold timer to reduce the time interval set for hello packet generation and transmission. This allows the NSF-aware router to reply to the NSF-capable router more quickly and reduces the amount of time required for the NSF-capable router to rediscover neighbors and rebuild the topology table.
- Starts the route-hold timer. This timer is used to set the period of time that the NSF-aware router will hold known routes for the NSF-capable neighbor. This timer is configured with the timers graceful-restart purge-timecommand. The default time period is 240 seconds.
- Notes in the peer list that the NSF-capable neighbor is restarting, maintains adjacency, and holds known routes for the NSF-capable neighbor until the neighbor signals that it is ready for the NSF-aware router to send its topology table or the route-hold timer expires. If the route-hold timer expires on the NSF-aware router, it discards held routes and treats the NSF-capable router as a new router joining the network and reestablishing adjacency accordingly.

When the switchover operation is complete, the NSF-capable router notifies its neighbors that it has reconverged and has received all of their topology tables by sending an EOT update packet to the assisting routers. The NSF-capable router then returns to normal operation. The NSF-aware router looks for alternate paths (go active) for any routes that are not refreshed by the NSF-capable (restarting) router. The NSF-aware router returns to normal operation. If all paths are refreshed by the NSF-capable router, the NSF-aware router immediately returns to normal operation.

The route-hold timer is configurable, which allows you to tune network performance and avoid undesired conditions such as “black holing” routes if the switchover operation is lengthy. When the timer expires, the NSF-aware router scans the topology table and discards stale routes, allowing EIGRP peers to find alternate routes instead of waiting during a long switchover operation.
The route-hold timer is configured with the **timers graceful-restart purge-time** router configuration command. The default time period for the route-hold timer is 240 seconds. The configurable range is from 10 to 300 seconds.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# timers graceful-restart purge-time 120
```

**show ip protocols** can be used to verify EIGRP NSF awareness.
