---
name: 3.5.5.6
title: 3.5.5.6 - IP FRR
short-title: IP FRR
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.5.6.html
folder: eigrp
---
EIGRP Fast Reroute (FRR) is a newer feature of EIGRP that allows a backup route to be preinstalled into the FIB as a repair route. This cuts down on the time needed for convergence during failures. In a nutshell FRR picks the best feasible successor route and installs it into the FIB as a backup route. There are a couple of things to note.

First, you might be asking yourself, doesn’t EIGRP already have feasible successors built-in to the protocol?  While correct, we need FRR to be able to pre-program the router to allow the router to immediately switch over to a feasible successor route when the successor route is lost.

Second, what if you have multiple Successors but no Feasible Successors? Well, in that case you don’t use FRR but instead use the multiple Successors  via Equal Cost Multipath (ECMP).

There are two types of FRR, per-link and per-prefix. EIGRP uses per-prefix. Configuration is straightforward in named mode only.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp TEST
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 unicast autonomous-system 100
R1(config-router-af)# topology base
R1(config-router-af-topology)# fast-reroute per-prefix all
```
When we do a show command we see that the FRR installed path is called the Repair path.
```
R1# sh ip route 4.4.4.4 | i Repair
      Repair Path: 192.168.13.3, via GigabitEthernet1.13
```

This might be getting too granular, but FRR also allows you to select a tiebreaker method in case there are multiple Feasible Successors to choose from. The 4 tiebreakers are:
1. srlg-disjoint, priority 10
2. interface-disjoint, priority 20
3. lowest-backup-path-metric, priority 30
4. linecard-disjoint, priority 40

Lower priority is better.

srlg-disjoint favors a backup-path/interface that isn't in the same Shared Risk Link Group (more below).

interface-disjoint favors a backup route that doesn't share the same interface for its next-hop. BEWARE, sub-interfaces are considered disjointed interfaces by the FRR process on my version of IOS-XE!

lowest-backup-path-metric favors a backup route with the lowest metric.

linecard-disjoint favors a backup route that doesn't share the same linecard.

So to clarify, by default, SRLG gets priority unless not set, then interface-disjoint gets priority unless the two paths are already on different interfaces (or subinterfaces), then the lowest metric is picked. If the metric is the same, it looks for a port on a different linecard.

So to start, what the heck is SRLG?

There's very little information on this feature that I can find, but the idea, as best I can tell, is that if you happen to know two physical links share some dependency (perhaps passing through the same L2 switch upstream, for example), you can tell IOS which ones have dependencies.

For example, if Gig1 and Gig2 on my router both passed through a single point of failure upstream, my config might look something like this:
```
R1(config)#int gig1
R1(config-if)#srlg gid 1
R1(config-if)#int gig2
R1(config-if)#srlg gid 1
R1(config-if)#int gig3
R1(config-if)#srlg gid 2
```
