---
name: 3.5.2.4
title: 3.5.2.4 - Wide Metric
short-title: Wide Metric
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.2.4.html
folder: eigrp
---
The original EIGRP composite metric based on bandwidth, load, delay, reliability, and MTU is not scaled correctly for high bandwidth interfaces, resulting in less than optimal routing behavior. To resolve this, EIGRP wide metrics support 64-bit metric calculations that will scale to interface speeds up to 4.2 Tbps.

To accommodate interfaces with bandwidths above 1 gigabit and up to 4.2 terabits and to allow EIGRP to perform path selections, the EIGRP composite cost metric formula is modified. The paths are selected based on the computed time. The time that information takes to travel through links is measured in picoseconds. The interfaces can be directly capable of these high speeds, or the interfaces can be bundles of links with an aggregate bandwidth greater than 1 gigabit.

The new metric calculation changed four items:
- Delay is now measured in picoseconds instead of microseconds (this helps with the 10 microsecond minimum issue before)
- Bandwidth’s scaling factor is much larger as the calculation is now $$ \frac{10^7*65536}{minbandwidth} $$ compared to the previous  $$ \frac{10^7*256}{minbandwidth} $$
- the overall metric is now 64 bits instead of 32 bits
- K6 added for future use (which Cisco has said will be for jitter). It’s default value is 0.

The RIB metric value is still only 32 bits, so the EIGRP 64 bit metric will not fit. We use a scaling factor of 128 to divide the 64-bit metric by in order to make it fit.  You can reassign the scaling factor to any value between 1 and 255 with the router eigrp address family ipv6 command **metric rib-scale\<1-255\>**. But remember, if you use 1 the metric may not fit which means the route will not be inserted into the RIB!!

The default K values stay the same, with K6 = 0. K6 is an additional K value for future use.

EIGRP named mode automatically uses wide metrics when it is speaking to another EIGRP named mode process. If the named mode instance is speaking to a classic mode instance, it will use classic metric calculations.