---
name: 3.5.5.1
title: 3.5.5.1 - EIGRP Convergence Timers
short-title: EIGRP Convergence Timers
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.5.1.html
folder: eigrp
---
EIGRP sends out Hello packets every 5 seconds by default on high bandwidth links and 60 seconds on low bandwidth multipoint links. Almost all of today’s networks classify as high bandwidth, with the only exception being T1 or slower Frame Relay circuits. This rate can be adjusted on a per interface basis.
```
R1(config-if)# ip hello-interval eigrp 100 2
```

The hold time is by default 3 times the hello interval, and it can also be adjusted on a per interface basis.
```
R1(config-if)# ip hold-time eigrp 100 6
```

The hold time is carried in hello packets, which is the main reason why the hello and hold timers do not have to match on neighboring routers in order for an adjacency to form.

The **ip hello-interval** defines the local transmission rate of Hello Packets, while the **ip hold-time** tells the neighbor how long to wait before resetting the adjacency. The Hello time is not carried in EIGRP Hello packets, but the Hold Time is.

There is not an easy way to determine the hello interval from **show ip eigrp neighbors**. You must deduce the likely interval from the hold time.

The active timer is set in router eigrp configuration mode. It controls how long an EIGRP router will wait for a reply to a query message before considering the route *Stuck in Active (SIA)* and declaring the neighbor from which no reply was received as down.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# timers active-timer 1
```
The above would change the active-timer from its default of 3 minutes down to 1 minute.
