---
name: 3.5.2.3
title: 3.5.2.3 - Classic Metric
short-title: Classic Metric
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.2.3.html
folder: eigrp
---
### Overview
The actual metric for EIGRP is quite the monster in its complete form.

$$
Metric = 256 * \left((K_1 * BW) + \left(\frac{K_2*BW}{256-Load}\right) + (K_3*Delay)\left(\frac{K_5}{Reliability + K_4}\right)\right)
$$

The default K values are $$K_1$$ and $$K_3 = 1$$ while $$K_2$$, $$K_4$$, and $$K_5$$ = 0._

With the default K values, the monster equation above can be simplified to:
$$
\left(\left(\frac{10^7}{min-bandwidth}\right)+SumOfDelays\right)*256
$$

To change the default K values, use the router configuration command **metric weights**.

| **K Value** | **Component** | **Description** |
| K1 | Bandwidth | Lowest Bandwidth of route |
| K2 | Load | Highest load on route based on packet rate |
| K3 | Delay | Cumulative interface delay of route |
| K4 | Reliability | Worst reliability of routes based on keep alive |
| K5 | MTU | Smallest MTU in path |

#### Bandwidth (K1)
EIGRP takes the bandwidth used in its metric calculation first from the**bandwidth** command. If no bandwidth is specified in this manner, it then looks at the interface’s default bandwidth. Remember that changing the **bandwidth** value of an interface does not actually change the bandwidth value, or police the interface in any way. It is only used to influence routing protocols which use bandwidth in its metric calculation. Bandwidth for the metric calculation is represented in kilobits per second.

#### Load (K2)
If K2 (Load) is enabled, EIGRP will use maximum **Txload** value. The Load is represented with a scale of 1 to 255, where 1 represents the interface is empty and 255 represents the interface is fully utilized.

#### Delay (K3)
Delay reflects the time taken by a packet in crossing the interface. Cisco has default delays based on Interface type. For example, FastEthernet has a default delay of 100 microseconds. Delay is configurable from 10 to 167,772,140 microseconds. As noted previously, we enter the delay in tens of microseconds, but the **show interface** command represents the delay in microseconds.

The total delay is equal to the delay received from neighboring router plus its own interface delay.

#### Reliability (K4)
Reliability compares all successfully received frames against all received frames. 100% reliability indicates all the frames we received were good. It is based on a scale of 0 to 255, where 255 means 100% reliability.

#### MTU (K5)
MTU in EIGRP is really only used when equal cost paths to the same destination exceed the value from the **maximum-paths** command. Paths with a higher MTU will be selected over paths with a lower MTU in this situation.

### Putting It All Together
Returning to our monster equation from above.
$$
Metric = 256 * \left((K_1 * BW) + \left(\frac{K_2*BW}{256-Load}\right) + (K_3*Delay)\left(\frac{K_5}{Reliability + K_4}\right)\right)
$$

The default K values are $$K_1$$ and $$K_3 = 1$$ while $$K_2$$, $$K_4$$, and $$K_5$$ = 0._

Cisco uses a value for bandwidth that we can substitute in as well. $$ \frac{10^7}{min-bandwidth} $$.

With the default K values and Cisco’s value for bandwidth substituted, the monster equation above can be simplified to:
$$
\left\left\frac{10^7}{min-bandwidth}\right)+\sum{Delays}\right)*256
$$

K values must match for neighbor relationships to form.
