---
name: 3.5.2.5
title: 3.5.2.5 - Metric Weights
short-title: Classic Metric
category: 3.5 EIGRP
collection: eigrp
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: eigrp_sidebar
permalink: 3.5.2.5.html
folder: eigrp
---
Metric Weights refers to the K values we have seen previously. To change the default K values, use the router configuration command **metric weights**.

| **K Value** | **Component** | **Description** |
| K1 | Bandwidth | Lowest Bandwidth of route |
| K2 | Load | Highest load on route based on packet rate |
| K3 | Delay | Cumulative interface delay of route |
| K4 | Reliability | Worst reliability of routes based on keep alive |
| K5 | MTU | Smallest MTU in path |

#### Bandwidth (K1)
EIGRP takes the bandwidth used in its metric calculation first from the**bandwidth** command. If no bandwidth is specified in this manner, it then looks at the interface’s default bandwidth. Remember that changing the **bandwidth** value of an interface does not actually change the bandwidth value, or police the interface in any way. It is only used to influence routing protocols which use bandwidth in its metric calculation. Bandwidth for the metric calculation is represented in kilobits per second.

#### Load (K2)
If K2 (Load) is enabled, EIGRP will use maximum **Txload** value. The Load is represented with a scale of 1 to 255, where 1 represents the interface is empty and 255 represents the interface is fully utilized.

#### Delay (K3)
Delay reflects the time taken by a packet in crossing the interface. Cisco has default delays based on Interface type. For example, FastEthernet has a default delay of 100 microseconds. Delay is configurable from 10 to 167,772,140 microseconds. As noted previously, we enter the delay in tens of microseconds, but the **show interface** command represents the delay in microseconds.

The total delay is equal to the delay received from neighboring router plus its own interface delay.

#### Reliability (K4)
Reliability compares all successfully received frames against all received frames. 100% reliability indicates all the frames we received were good. It is based on a scale of 0 to 255, where 255 means 100% reliability.

#### MTU (K5)
MTU in EIGRP is really only used when equal cost paths to the same destination exceed the value from the **maximum-paths** command. Paths with a higher MTU will be selected over paths with a lower MTU in this situation.

To configure the default k values, you use the **metric weights** command. For class mode this is under router eigrp configuration and for named mode it is under AF mode.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# metric weights 0 1 0 1 0 0
```
The above would set the metric k values to there default values. The first 0 is the TOS that is required and must be a 0.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp MULTI-AF
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 unicast autonomous-system 100
R1(config-router-af)# metric weights 0 1 0 1 0 0 0
```
Notice that in named mode, there is an extra value for K6. Right now K6 is unused and defaults to 0.

The easiest way to see the weights is via **show ip protocols**.
```
R5# do sh ip protocols | section eigrp
Routing Protocol is "eigrp 100"
  Outgoing update filter list for all interfaces is not set
  Incoming update filter list for all interfaces is not set
  Default networks flagged in outgoing updates
  Default networks accepted from incoming updates
  EIGRP-IPv4 Protocol for AS(100)
Metric weight K1=0, K2=0, K3=1, K4=0, K5=0
Soft SIA disabled
NSF-aware route hold timer is 240
Router-ID: 150.1.5.5
Topology : 0 (base)
  Active Timer: 3 min
  Distance: internal 90 external 170
  Maximum path: 4
  Maximum hopcount 100
  Maximum metric variance 1
R5#
```
