---
name: 8.1.8
title: 8.1.8 - SNMPv2 Server
short-title: SNMPv2 Server
category: 8.1 Device Management
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.1.8.html
folder: system-management
---
The Simple Network Management Protocol is an application-layer protocolthat provides a standardized framework and a common language used for monitoring and managing devices in a network. There are 3 components to SNMP:
- the SNMP Manager
- the SNMP Agent
- SNMP MIBS

The SNMP Manager is a system that controls and monitors the activity of network hosts using SNMP. These are often called Network Management Systems (NMS).

The SNMP Agent is a software component within a managed device that maintains the data for the device and reports this data, as needed, to the NMS.

The SNMP MIB contains MIB variables that the NMS can request or change through SNMP Get or Set operations.

There are 3 SNMP activities:
- SNMP GET
- SNMP SET
- SNMP Notifications (Traps and Informs)

GET and SET are initiated from an SNMP Manager. Traps and Informs are initiated from the managed device. Informs are just Traps that require an acknowledgement from the receiver. Despite the added reliability, traps are used more frequently as they require much less overhead.

SNMPv2 uses only community strings for authentication. To enable SNMPv2 on an IOS device, nothing more than a community string is required:
```
R1(config)# snmp-server community TEST ?
  <1-99>       Std IP accesslist allowing access with this community string
  <1300-1999>  Expanded IP accesslist allowing access with this community
               string
  WORD         Access-list name
  ipv6         Specify IPv6 Named Access-List
  ro           Read-only access with this community string
  rw           Read-write access with this community string
  view         Restrict this community to a named MIB view
  <cr>
```
You can see that a standard access list can be provided to restrict access to SNMP, and you can also set read-only or read-write access.

You can also assign views to community strings to limit which MIB objects an SNMP manager can access. There are predefined views or you can create your own.
```
R1(config)# snmp-server view MIB2 mib-2 included
R1(config)# snmp-server community TEST view MIB2
```

One peculiar item with IOS - SNMP interface index values are not the same between device reloads by default. This may confuse some NMS because interfaces are identified by the IfIndex value in the SNMP MIB. To resolve this, set the IfIndex to persist across reloads.
```
R1(config)# snmp-server ifindex persist
```

If you want the manager to be able to reload the device, you would need these two configuration settings:
```
R1(config)# snmp-server community TEST rw
R1(config)# snmp-server system-shutdown
```

If you want to be able to use TFTP commands via SNMP to download/upload the router's configuration file, you need to reference a standard access-list with the below command:
```
R1(config)# snmp-server file-transfer access-group 10
```
