---
name: 8.1.2
title: 8.1.2 - Telnet & Telnet Service Options
short-title: Telnet & Telnet Service Options
category: 8.1 Device Management
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.1.2.html
folder: system-management
---
Telnet access is configured through VTY lines. To specify Telnet use you specify the VTY lines that you want to allow telnet access to as follows:
```
R1(config)# line vty 0 4
R1(config-line)# transport input telnet
```

There are a few configuration options to fine tune telnet within IOS.
- **service telnet-zero-idle**: this command sets the TCP window to 0 when a session is suspended. This prevents the remote host from sending any more data until the connection is resumed.
- **ip telnet source-interface**: this can be used to set the source interface for *outbound* telnet sessions. by default, the source interface will be the address of the closest interface to the destination.
- **service tcp-keepalives in\|out**: this is useful for keeping telnet sessions active. It operates by probing idle connections to see if they are still active
- **ip telnet quiet**: in this mode, non-error telnet messages will not be displayed to the user as they are initiating the session. This will suppress messages such as "Trying R4 (155.1.146.4)"
- **ip telnet hidden address**: with this on, telnet addresses or hostnames will not be displayed
- **ip telnet tos 60**: this allows you to set the Type of Service (TOS)

One other setting that can be set is the busy message. You can set a message per hostname.
```
R1(config)# busy-message R4 # Sorry your connection to R4 failed #
```
This is a client facing message so configuring this on R1 would display the busy-message configured when connection attempts to R4 failed.
