---
name: 8.1.12
title: 8.1.12 - SNMPv3
short-title: SNMPv3
category: 8.1 Device Management
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.1.12.html
folder: system-management
---
SNMPv3 was a major improvement over V2c as it added authentication and encryption capabilities. It abandons the Community string authentication we saw in previous versions. Instead, it relies upon authentication via a group / user model.

You will see "authNoPriv" and "authPriv" security models when it comes to SNMPv3. "authPriv" means that authentication is provided via MD5 or SHA *and* DES encryption is used on packets.

When configuring SNMPv3, a typical path is to define a view granting access to certain MIBs, create a group that gives access to certain views and defines the security level, and then create users belonging to certain group(s).

If a group is defined without a read view, all objects are available to be read (implicit permit). Write view is an implicit deny. The notify view is usually *not* configured manually and is auto-generated by the **snmp-server host** command when users in a group are bound to a notification.

The SNMPv3 security level supported by IOS are:
- noauth: no authentication and no encryption
- auth: authentication but no encryption
- priv: authentication and encryption

With SNMPv3, it uses DES (56-bit) encryption. The same key needs to be configured on the Cisco agent as well as the NMS.

Here is an example configuration showing a two group / two user setup.
```
R1(config)# snmp-server view RESTRICTED ifEntry.*.3 included
R1(config)# snmp-server group RESTRICTED v3 auth write RESTRICTED access 46
R1(config)# snmp-server group TRAP v3 priv
R1(config)# snmp-server user RESTRICTED RESTRICTED v3 auth sha CISCO
R1(config)# snmp-server user TRAP TRAP v3 auth sha CISCO priv 3des CISCO
R1(config)# snmp-server enable traps snmp linkup linkdown
R1(config)# snmp-server host 155.1.146.100 traps version 3 priv trap
```
