---
name: 8.2.5
title: 8.2.5 - Configuration Change Notification and Logging
short-title: Configuration Change Notification and Logging
category: 8.2 Logging
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.2.5.html
folder: system-management
---

The Configuration Change Notification and Logging feature allows the tracking of configuration changes entered on a per-session or per-user basis by implementing an archive function. The archive saves configuration logs that track:
- the configuration command that was applied
- the user that applied the command
- the parser return code for the command
- the time the command was applied

The feature also adds a notification mechanism that sends asynchronous notifications to registered applications whenever the configuration log changes. This is done by configuring syslog.

Before this feature was introduced, the only way to determine if the configuration changed was to save a copy of the running and startup configs to a local computer and do line by line comparisons.

Only completed commands will be logged. For each configuration command that is executed, the following information is logged:
- the command that was executed
- the configuration mode in which the command was executed
- the name of the user that executed the command
- the time at which the command was executed
- a configuration change sequence number
- parser return codes for the command

Here is how to enable the Configuration Change Notification and Logging Feature.
```
R1(config)# archive
R1(config-archive)# log config
R1(config-archive-log-config)# logging enable
```

The default log size is 100 entries. That can be changed with the following command:
```
R1(config-archive-log-config)# logging size 200
```
If you wish to surpress the display of passwords in configuration log files, use this optional command.
```
R1(config-archive-log-config)# hidekeys
```

As mentioned previously, if syslog is configured you can enable the sending of notifications indicating configuration changes to a remote syslog.
```
R1(config-archive-log-config)# notify syslog
```

To see information from the configuration log, use the **show archive log config** command.
```
R1# show archive log config 1 2
idx   sess   user@line        Logged command
 1     1     user1@console    logging enable
 2     1     user1@console    logging size 200
```
The 1 2 indicates the starting and ending line numbers.

