---
name: 8.2.1
title: 8.2.1 - System Message Logging
short-title: System Message Logging
category: 8.2 Logging
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.2.1.html
folder: system-management
---
By default, system messages and output from debug commands are sent to the logging process. The logging process controls the distribution of logging messages to various destinations, such as the logging buffer, terminal lines, or a UNIX syslog server. The process also sends messages to the console, even when the logging process is disabled.

You can set the severity level of the messages to control the types of messages displayed on the consoles and each of the destinations. You can optionally time-stamp log messages or set the syslog source address.

Access to system logged messages can be achieved via the CLI or by saving them to a syslog server. IOS software saves syslog messages in an internal buffer.

Next we will view a series of configuration commands with an explanation if warranted.

This will disable all message logging.
```
R1(config)# no logging console
```

To synchronize solicited and unsolicited display messages, use **logging synchronous**.
```
R1(config)# line vty 0 4
R1(config-line)# logging synchronous
```

To change the buffer size from its default of 4096 bytes, use **logging buffered**.
```
R1(config)# logging buffered 8192
```

To send system messages to a syslog host, use the following:
```
R1(config)# logging nms.example.com
```

To log to flash, use this format. It specifies max log file size, minimum log file size, and severity level to log.
```
R1(config)# logging file flash::log-file 8192 4096 7
```

To enable time-stamps or sequence numbers on log messages, use this.
```
R1(config)# service timestamps log datetime msec localtime show-timezone
R1(config)# service sequence-numbers
```

You can limit messages sent to the selected device by specifying the severity level of the message.
```
R1(config)# logging console 7
R1(config)# logging monitor 1
R1(config)# logging traps 7
```
