---
name: 8.3.3
title: 8.3.3 - NTP Access Control
short-title: NTP Access Control
category: 8.3 NTP
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.3.3.html
folder: system-management
---
You can use access lists combined with **ntp access-group** to only allow polling from certain peers and clients. This is pretty straightforward. It takes as input a standard (named or numbered) access list.
```
R1(config)#ntp access-group ?
  ipv4        ipv4 access lists
  ipv6        ipv6 access lists
  peer        Provide full access
  query-only  Allow only control queries
  serve       Provide server and query access
  serve-only  Provide only server access

R1(config)# ntp access-group peer 10
```
Where 10 is the standard access list number permitting allowed peers and clients.

It is convenient to classify NTP messages in two types:

1.	Control messages. Documented in RFC 1305 Appendix B, serve the purpose, usually fulfilled by SNMP. Without digging into any details, let’s just say the control messages are for reading and writing internal NTP variables and obtaining NTP status information. Not to deal with time synchronization itself.
2.	NTP request/update messages. Those are used for actual time synchronization. Request packet obviouly asks for synchronization information, and update packet contains synchronization information, and may change local clock.

IOS router defines the following four types of access for NTP:

1.	Peer – permits router to respond to NTP requests and accept NTP updates. NTP control queries are also accepted. This is the only class which allows a router to be synchronized by other devices.
2.	Serve – permits router to reply to NTP requests, but rejects NTP updates (e.g. replies from a server or update packets from a peer). Control queries are also permitted.
3.	Serve-only – permits router to respond to NTP requests only. Rejects attempt to synchronize local system time, and does not access control queries.
4.	Query-only – only accepts NTP control queries. No response to NTP requests are sent, and no local system time synchronization with remote system is permitted.

If multiple access-groups are defined, they are scanned in the order above, which is essentially from least restrictive to most restrictive.

One special condition exists. If you configure the IOS device as NTP master, you **must** allow peer access type to a source with IP address 127.127.7.1. This is the address designated to the internal server created by the **ntp master** command.
```
R1(config)# access-list 1 permit 127.127.7.1
R1(config)# ntp master
R1(config)# ntp access-group peer 1
```
