---
name: 8.3.1
title: 8.3.1 - NTP
short-title: NTP
category: 8.3 NTP
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.3.1.html
folder: system-management
---
The system clock is the heart of the time service in Cisco devices. This is a software based clock and it can be set from many sources. If the system is rebooted, the software clock is set to the time of the hardware clock, if a hardware clock is present on the device. The software clock is based on UTC time, but time zones can be configured to display the time in a locally readable format. The software clock keeps track of whether it is *authoritative* - has it been set from a reliable source. If it is not authoritative, then it will not redistribute its time with other services or devices.

NTP runs on UDP port 123 as both the source and destination. NTP is efficient as just 1 packet per minute can result in time accuracy to within 1 millisecond.

NTP uses the concept of a stratum to describe how many NTP hops away a machine is from an authoritative time source. A Stratum 1 time server has a radio or atomic clock directly connected to it.

NTP avoids synchronizing to a machine whose time might be inacuarte in two ways. First, NTP never synchronizes to a machine that is not synchronized itself. Secondly, NTP compares the time reported by several machines, and will not synchronize to a machine whose time is significantly different than the others, even if its stratum is lower.

Most of the time NTP communication is statically configured. The exception is that in a LAN environment, NTP messages can be broadcast by the NTP server.

All efforts should be made to secure NTP to avoid the accidental or malicious setting of an incorrect time. NTP can be secured through a built-in access-list mechanism as well as an encryption scheme.

There are 3 modes used by NTP to associate with each other. First is the client/server mode where a client can poll a server to synchronize with. This is the most common internet configuration and is configured on the NTP client with the **ntp server** command.
```
R1(config)# ntp server time.apple.com prefer
```
The **prefer** keyword is optional and is used to prefer a particular server if multiple NTP servers are configured.

The second mode of operation commonly used is the Symmetric Active mode. This is intended for use where a group of low stratum peers operate as mutual backups for each other. It is a peer-to-peer relationship among the NTP servers. The symmetric peers are configured by declaring all peers on each NTP server with the **ntp peer** command. The devices need to be in the same stratum to become peers.

The final mode is Broadcast or Multicast mode. You will suffer slightly greater time offsets when using this mode. In this design the server is usually synchronized with another server or peers, and then the server will broadcast NTP updates to the clients. The broadcast server is configured with the **ntp broadcast** interface command and the clients are configured with the **ntp broadcast client** interface configuration command, which will make it listen for broadcast NTP packets.
'''
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ntp broadcast
```

To declare an IOS device as an NTP master, use the **master** command followed by its designated stratum. This declares the device as an authoritative NTP server.
```
R1(config)# ntp master 3
```
NTP can take a while to synchronize. It is best practice to manually set the time to the same values before beginning the NTP synch process.

To periodically update the hardware clock (calendar) from the NTP time source, use this command.
```
R1(config)# ntp update-calendar
```



