---
name: 8.3.4
title: 8.3.4 - NTP Version 3 & 4
short-title: NTP Version 3 & 4
category: 8.3 NTP
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.3.4.html
folder: system-management
---
NTPv4 provides some enhancements over NTPv3. NTPv4 is backward compatible to NTPv3. The 3 main improvements in version 4 are:
- IPv6 support
- Enhanced Security
- DNS support for IPv6

NTPv4 extends its support for IPv6 by making NTP synchronization possible over IPv6. NTPv4 uses IPv6 multicast messages for clock synchronization. The common deployment method in NTPv3 for IPv4 was to use the **ntp broadcast client** command to instruct the peer to listen to NTP broadcasts. To configure a server to send NTPv4 multicast packets to a particular designated multicast address, perform the following.
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ntp multicast FF02::1:FF0E:8C6C
```
And then to configure a client to accept NTP multicast updates, use this:
```
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ntp multicast client FF02::1:FF0E:8C6C
```

NTPv4 uses Symmetric Key Authentication which provides a strong cryptographic authentication mechanism but requires the manual deployment of keys to devices across the network. Its main purpose is to prevent the device's local time from being incorrectly updated by a malicious intruder. NTPv3 access group functionality remains and is still an effective means of limiting access to an NTP server. Here is an example of a symmetric key configuration.
```
R1(config)# ntp authenticate
R1(config)# ntp authentication-key 42 md5 CISCO
R1(config)# ntp trusted-key 42

With NTPv3, hostnames were resolved into IPv4 address addresses at configuration. Then only the IPv4 address is kept in memory. NTPv4 keeps the hostname in memory.
