---
name: 8.5.9
title: 8.5.9 - Tuning Packet Buffers
short-title: Tuning Packet Buffers
category: 8.5 Miscellaneous System Management
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.5.9.html
folder: system-management
---
Buffers represent chunks of space in the router's I/O Memory. Buffer tuning allows you to modify the way a router allocates buffers from its available memory, and helps prevent packet drops during a temporary burst of traffic. To determine whether your router needs buffer tuning, use the **show buffers** and **show interfaces** commands.
```
R1# show interface GigabitEthernet0/1
...
  5 minute input rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
  5 minute output rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
     0 packets input, 0 bytes, 0 no buffer
...
```
When using **show buffers**, look at the buffer size corresponding to the MTU of the interface.
```
R1# show buffers
...
Big buffers, 1536 bytes (total 512, permanent 512):
     512 in free list (100 min, 1024 max allowed)
     1875 hits, 0 misses, 0 trims, 0 created
     0 failures (0 no memory)
...
GigabitEthernet0/1 buffers, 2304 bytes (total 4097, permanent 2048):
     2048 in free list (2048 min, 2048 max allowed)
     1367 hits, 682 misses, 0 trims, 2049 created
     0 failures (0 no memory)
     2048 max cache size, 1 in cache
     74775 hits in cache, 1 misses in cache
     14 buffer threshold, 0 threshold transitions
```
As you can see above, an interface may have its own private buffer pool, and all interfaces have access to public buffer pools. The different sizes exist because pre-allocating the buffers is much faster than dynamically assigning them as needed. Tuning is simply finding the right trade-off between the two. A buffer hit means that a buffer was available for use when a packet arrived, and a buffer miss means that IOS had to allocate a new buffer on demand for the packet. The main item to look for when troubleshooting is the number of *failures* and the number of *no memory*.

For each buffer group it is possible to specify the upper and lower bounds of the buffer count, as well as the permanent and initial buffer allocation.

IOS buffers are used for two main reasons:
- to handle traffic terminating at the router
- when packets are being process switched

For lower end routers buffers are used for fast switching also. These buffers are located in shared memory (DRAM).

The interface buffer pools are used by the interfaces for I/O. When there are no more buffers in the interface buffer free list, the router goes to the public buffer pools as a fallback. There is no performance hit for a fallback.
