---
name: 8.5.7
title: 8.5.7 - Generating Exception Core Dumps
short-title: Generating Exception Core Dumps
category: 8.5 Miscellaneous System Management
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.5.7.html
folder: system-management
---
When a router crashes, it is useful to obtaina copy of the entire memory contents of the router, called a core dump. The Cisco TAC can use this to help troubleshoot the issue. Creation of a core dump on a working production router is not recommended, as it will likely disrupt network operation. There are 4 ways to set up a router to generate a core dump:
- FTP
- RCP
- Flash Disk
- TFTP

Each of the above methods use the **exception region-size \<size\>** command. The size is measured in bytes. It refers to the exception-time memory pool. This memory pool is used in case the process memory becomes corrupt. The size is configurable between 1024 and 65536 bytes.

By default, the processor memory core dump is written to a file named "hostname-core" where hostname is the name of the router. If the router has I/O memory (such as a 7200), an IO memory core dump can also be created, written to the file "hostname-coreiomem". You can override the name of the dumps using **exception core-file \<name\>** in which case the IO dump is named "nameio".

FTP is the recommended method of configuring the core dump. You need to set the transfer mode to binary. Here are the commands to use FTP.
```
R1(config)# ip ftp username jimbo
R1(config)# ip ftp password winston
R1(config)# exception protocol ftp
R1(config)# exception region-size 65536
R1(config)# exception dump 192.168.17.200
```
If the FTP server is not directly connected as Cisco recommends, you may need to speficy the source address used for FTP.
```
R1(config)# ip ftp source-interface Loopback1
```

The configuration is almost identical for using RCP, but of course, there is no passowrd.
```
R1(config)# ip rcmd remote-username jimbo
R1(config)# exception protocol rcp
R1(config)# exception region size 65536
R1(config)# exception dump 192.168.17.201
R1(config)# ip rcmd source-interface Loopback1
```

To use a flash disk, make sure the flash disk size is larger than the amount of installed DRAM memory.
```
R1(config)# exception flash all flash0:
```
The all command dumps both "procmem" and "iomem" memory, but alternatively you could use one of those keywords to limit the dump memory type.

Finally we have TFTP. Due to a limitation of most TFTP applications, the router only dumps the first 16 MB of the core file when using TFTP. If the main memory is larger than 16 MB, you should not use TFTP.
```
R1(config)# exception protocol tftp
R1(config)# exception region-size 16384
R1(config)# exception dump 192.168.17.202
R1(config)# ip tftp source-interface Loopback1
```

To test the core dump setup, use the command **write core** in EXEC mode. This makes the router generate a core dump without a reload. If the server has not been specified, it will ask you for an IP address and use TFTP.
