---
name: 8.5.1
title: 8.5.1 - Auto-Install over LAN Interfaces using DHCP
short-title: Auto-Install over LAN Interfaces using DHCP
category: 8.5 Miscellaneous System Management
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.5.1.html
folder: system-management
---
AutoInstall allows you to connect a new router to the network and have it configured automatically by the router loading a configuration file across the network. The process begins any time an IOS device is turned on and a valid configuration file is not found in NVRAM.

AutoInstall tries to obtain an IP address and configuration differently depending on the type of interface:
- LAN interfaces broadcast DHCP/BOOTP/RARP requests
- On serial Interfaces:
	- If HDLC encapsulation, a SLARP request is sent out
	- If Frame Relay encapsulation, a BOOTP request is sent out

On regular LAN interfaces, AutoInstall is typically performed with a combination of DHCP for obtaining an IP address and then TFTP for downloading a configuration file.

There are many if-then steps to the process which makes it a little difficult to follow. I will try to break it down.

1. The router attempts to obtain an IP address through DHCP. The DHCP server can also provide *defualt router*, *DNS server*, *TFTP server name, and a *boot file name*. In parallel to this the device is also sending out BOOTP queries to learn the TFTP server's name ("sname"), TFTP server's IP address ("siaddr"), and boot file name ("file").
2. The router tries to download its configuration using a unicast transfer from the TFTP server learned via DHCP/BOOTP.
	a. If the DHCP/BOOTP server has specified the boot file, the router tries to download this as its configuration file.
	b. If the DHCP/BOOTP server did not specify a boot file, then the router tries to download and install a network-wide configuration file named "network-confg" and then "cisconet.cfg" from the TFTP server
		i. If the network wide configuration was downloaded, the router looks into the **ip host** commands trying to find a match to its newly obtained IP address to resolve its hostname. If the hostname is found, the router requests the host-specific configuration file \<hostanme\>confg via TFTP and if that fails it requests \<hostname\>.cfg. If the file is downloaded, it is merged with its current configuration.
		ii. If the hostname was not resolved by looking at **ip host**, the router tries to resolve its name via DNS and downloads the respective configuration file from above.
3. If the hostname lookup or download of hostname specific configuration file fails, the router tries to download the generic configuration file "router-confg" or "router.cfg".

The configuration needs to have the elements above in some fashion, so it is hard to specifically say what the configuration elements are. Among the items needed are:
- DHCP server (critical)
	- MAC address to IP address mapping on DHCP server (critical)
- TFTP server - "siaddr/option 150" OR "sname/option 66" (critical)
- configuration file - "file" or "option 67" (critical)
- DNS server - "option 6"(optional)
- Staging router - "option 3" (needed if TFTP server not on local subnet)

Here is an example of a possible DHCP server configuration:
```
R1(config)# ip dhcp pool 1
R1(config-dhcp)# host 192.168.17.251
R1(config-dhcp)# hardware-address 0000.0c59.fcb0
R1(config-dhcp)# option 66 ascii tftp.internetbrew.com
R1(config-dhcp)# dns-server 192.168.17.254
R1(config-dhcp)# default-router 192.168.17.1
R1(config-dhcp)# bootfile R2-confg
```