---
name: 8.5.4
title: 8.5.4 - IOS Banners
short-title: IOS Banners
category: 8.5 Miscellaneous System Management
collection: system-management
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: system_sidebar
permalink: 8.5.4.html
folder: system-management
---
There are a total of 5 configurable banners in IOS. All are optional.
- Message-of-the-Day banner
- Login banner
- EXEC banner
- Incoming Banner
- SLIP-PPP Banner

The banners are created in global configuration mode and then enabled under line configuration mode, as in:
```
R1(config)# banner motd # MOTD BANNER #
R1(config)# line vty 0 4
R1(config-line)# motd-banner
```
#### Banner Tokens
Banner tokens are essentially variables that hold the value of certain IOS items. They can be referenced in any banner by using the $(token-name) format. Sme examples are $(hostname), $(domain), and $(peer-ip). Not all tokens are available for use in every banner type.

#### Message-of-the-Day Banner
The message-of-the-day banner is displayed at login to all connected terminals. It is useful for sending messages to the group of network admins that might be accessing the devices. Configuration is straightforward
```
R1(config)# banner motd # ALERT: I LOST MY ROUTER #
```
#### Login Banner
The Login banner is displayed after the MOTD banner but before login. The login banner cannot be limited to certain lines. If you later wish to not display the Login banner, you must use the **no banner login** global configuration command.
```
R1(config)# banner login # This is a restricted system. #
```
#### EXEC Banner
The EXEC banner is displayed whenever the EXEC process is initiated. The message would be displayed after telnet authentication, upon receiving a request for EXEC access.
```
R1(config)#  banner exec # Authorized access only #
```
#### Incoming Banner
An Incoming banner is used on reverse telnet lines. A reverse Telnet line gives users the ability to telnet to the IOS device, and then access a terminal connected via console lines.
```
R1(config)# banner incoming # Authentication Success. You can now access your terminal #
```
#### SLIP-PPP Banner
With some non-Cisco devices, the default banners would cause connection issues with SLIP/PPP clients. The SLIP-PPP banner was designed to ensure that PPP and SLIP connections would still succeed while still allowing for a banner to be displayed.
```
R1(config)# banner slip-ppp # Client PPP about to connect ... #
```
#### Disabling Banners
If you want to supress both the EXEC and MOTD banners, issue the **no exec-banner** command. To then reinstate just the MOTD banner, you can use **motd-banner**. 
