---
name: 3.4.1.6.1
title: 3.4.1.6.1 - Filtering with Passive Interface
short-title: RIPv2 Filtering with Passive Interface
exam: both
category: 3.4.1.6 RIPv2 Filtering
collection: RIP
layout: page
sidebar: rip_sidebar
permalink: 3.4.1.6.1.html
folder: rip
---
#### General RIP Filtering notes
Route filtering works by regulating the routes that are entered into or advertised out of the route table. RIP has several methods of filtering routes.
- **passive-interface** - prevents all updates from being sent *out* an interface
- **distribute-list out** - prevents specific routes from being sent *out* an interface
- **distribute-list in** - prevents specific routes from being allowed *in* an interface
- **offset-list out** - changes the metric on outbound advertisements
- **offset-list in** - changes the metric on inbound advertisements
- **distance** - changes the preference of an *inbound* route

Distribute Lists take a Prefix List, a Standard Access List, or an Extended Access List.

Offset Lists are specific to RIP and EIGRP and take a Standard Access List as input.

Distance takes either a Standard or an Extended Access List as an optional input. The required input is the source of the updates, while the access list defines the specific prefixes that should be filtered.


#### Passive Interface with RIP
To block RIP broadcasts (or multicasts) on an interface connected to a subnet of a RIP-enabled network, add the `passive-interface gig0/1` command to the RIP process. The **passive-interface** command is not specific to RIP as it can be used with all routing protocols for this purpose.  This will only get the router to quit **sending** updates. If you want the router to not learn routes advertised across the interface, you must filter those updates. Note the behavior is different with EIGRP.

The passive-interface command is often used in conjunction with the **neighbor** command to establish a unicast routing control plane.

You can use the passive interface command as a filtering mechanism. By enabling it on a router’s interface, you are filtering outbound routing updates sent out of that interface.

```
R1(config)# router rip
R1(config-router)# passive-interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-router)# network 192.168.1.0
R1(config-router)# exit
```
You can also make passive interfaces the default and then enable on a per interface basis.
```
R1(config)# router rip
R1(config-router)# passive-interface default
R1(config-router)# no passive-interface GigabitEthernet0/2
R1(config-router)# network 192.168.1.0
R1(config-router)# exit
```

The **show ip interface** command will alert you if an interface is set to passive.

With RIP, for all interfaces except those on which Frame Relay or SMDS encapsulation is enabled have split horizon enabled by default.
