---
name: 7.1.3
title: 7.1.3 - Port Based ACLs
short-title: Port Based ACLs
category: 7.1 Layer 2 Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.1.3.html
folder: security
---
Port Based ACLs, or PACLs, make it possible to filter incoming traffic (ingress) on a layer 2 interface using layer 2 MAC address as well as layer 3 or layer 4 information. They interact with VACLs, which we will discuss completely in a later post. For now, just know that VACLs are access-lists applied to traffic flowing within a VLAN. PACLs are access-lists applied to traffic flowing *ingress* to a port. They can be applied to physical interfaces or to trunks. We will also see MAC access-lists. These are applied to traffic that is not IP, MPLS, or ARP. PACLs are not applied to MPLS or ARP messages, and also cannot filter Physical and Logical Link protocols such as CDP, VTP, DTP, PAgP, UDLD, and STP. To filter this type of traffic you would use Control Plane Policing (CoPP), discussed later in another post.

You can use **access-group mode** command to change the way that PACLs interact with other ACLs. There are two modes, *prefer port mode* and *merge mode*.

With prefer port mode, the PACL takes effect and overwrites the effect of other ACLs. If a port is in this mode and no PACLs are configured, the other ACLs are merged and applied to the interface.

With merge mode, the PACL, VACL, and IOS ACLs are merged in the ingress direction. The order of merging is affected by whether the port is in bridged mode or routed mode.

For Brdged Packets, the order is as follows:
1. PACL for the ingress port
2. VACL for the ingress VLAN
3. VACL for the egress VLAN

For Routed packets, the order goes:
1. PACL for the ingress port
2. VACL for the ingress VLAN
3. Input Cisco IOS ACL
4. Output Cisco IOS ACL
5. VACL for the egress VLAN

Standard and Extended IP ACLs and Extended Named MAC ACLs are supported for use as a PACL. First we look at an example using an IP standard named access-list, with an access group mode of prefer port:
```
SW1(config)# ip access-list extended BASIC_IP_ACL
SW1(config-ext-nacl)# permit tcp any any
SW1(config-ext-nacl)# exit
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# ip access-group BASIC_IP_ACL in
SW1(config-if)# access-group mode prefer port
SW1(config-if)# exit
```
Next we will look at a MAC ACL used for the PACL with an access group mode of merged.
```
SW1(config)# mac access-list extended BASIC_MAC_ACL
SW1(config-ext-macl)# permit host 000.000.011 any
SW1(config-ext-macl)# exit
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# ip access-group BASIC_MAC_ACL in
SW1(config-if)# access-group mode merge
SW1(config-if)# exit
```

PACLs can be applied to an EtherChannel logical interface, but not to individual ports of the EtherChannel Group.
```
SW1(config)# ip access-list extended BASIC_IP_ACL
SW1(config-ext-nacl)# permit tcp any any
SW1(config-ext-nacl)# exit
SW1(config)# interface port-channel 12
SW1(config-if)# ip access-group BASIC_IP_ACL in
SW1(config-if)# access-group mode prefer port
SW1(config-if)# exit
```