---
name: 7.1.12
title: 7.1.12 - Dynamic ARP Inspection (DAI)
short-title: Dynamic ARP Inspection
category: 7.1 Layer 2 Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.1.12.html
folder: security
---
Dynamic ARP Inspection (DAI), is used to mitigate ARP Spoofing Attacks. Because the ARP protocol allows for gratuitous replies from all hosts, ARP spoofing is rather easy. DAI acts as a Layer 2 security measure by ensuring that only valid ARP requests and responses are relayed. A switch enforces DAI by these activities:
- Intercepts all ARP requests and responses on untrusted ports
- Verifies that each of these request and response packets have a valid IP-to-MAC address binding based on the DHCP snooping binding database
- Drops any invalid ARP packets

Dynamic ARP Inspection is enabled on a per VLAN basis. All checking is done on an ingress basis.
```
SW1(config)# ip arp inspection vlan 15-20,25
```

If you declare a port as trusted, DAI will forward ARP packets without inspection. In a typical network you would set switch-to-switch ports as trusted and switch-to-host ports as untrusted. Here is the setting to set an interface to trusted, as all ports are untrusted by default.
```
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# ip arp inspection trust
```

By default, when DAI is enabled the switch rate limits ARP traffic to prevent any denial-of-service attack. By default, the rate is set to 15 pps for all untrusted interfaces - trusted interfaces are not rate limited. If an untrusted port exceeds this limit it is placed into error disabled state. You can globally configure autorecovery from this state if desired. Here is how you would adjust the rate limit for an untrusted interface.
```
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# ip arp inspection limit 10
```
Here is the auto recovery setting:
```
SW1(config)# errdisable recovery cause arp-inspection
```

You can optionally use an ARP ACL to filter ARP requests. You can use these ARP ACLs to explicitly allow requests to and from your static clients. The ARP ACL, when implemented, will take priority over entries in the DHCP snooping database. Here is how you would configure an ARP ACL:
```
SW1(config)# arp access-list DENY_HIM
SW1(config-arp-acl)# 10 permit request ip 192.168.17.0 0.0.0.255 mac any
SW1(config-arp-acl)# 20 permit ip 10.10.10.1 0.0.0.0 mac 00C0.4f00.000 ffff.ffff.ffff
SW1(config-arp-acl)# 30 permit response ip host 10.10.10.1 any mac host 00c0.4fap.bcf3 any
SW1(config-arp-acl)# exit
```
To then apply the ARP ACL for DAI filtering use this format:
```
SW1(config)# ip arp inspection DENY_HIM vlan 20-21
```
