---
name: 7.1.10
title: 7.1.10 - DHCP Snooping
short-title: DHCP Snooping
category: 7.1 Layer 2 Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.1.10.html
folder: security
---
DHCP Snooping is a security feature that acts like a firewall between untrusted hosts and trusted DHCP servers. The feature performs the following:
- validates DHCP messages received from untrusted sources and filters out invalid messages.
- rate-limits DHCP traffic
- builds and maintains the DHCP binding database, which maps trusted hosts to leased IP addresses. Other services use this database.
- uses the DHCP binding database to validate subsequent requests from untrusted hosts

There are generally 4 reasons as to why you would want to run DHCP snooping on your network:
- prevent rogue (spurious) DHCP servers from answering DHCP requests before the real DHCP server can respond (DHCP server spoofing attack)
- prevent a malicious client from requesting hundreds of addresses and using up the entire pool (DHCP address exhaustion attack)
- IP address hijacking, in which an attacker sends a DHCPRELEASE message to the server in an effort to gain network access with the released IP address
- IP Source Guard
- Dynamic ARP Inspection

The last two items use the DHCP snooping binding database, which is why we need DHCP snooping to use their services.

Typically a DHCP server on your network is marked as trusted as well as switches, routers, and servers under your control. Usually host interfaces are marked as untrusted. One big reason to use DHCP Snooping is that it will prevent unauthorized DHCP servers from communicating with DHCP clients. This could cause havok on your network.

You can use the DHCP snooping database agent to store the DHCP bindings in a file on a remote device. Without using the agent, the bindings established by DHCP snooping are lost upon reload.

For configuration, there are a number of steps we must go through. First things first, we must make sure that the DHCP server sits on a trusted interface.
```
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# ip dhcp snooping trust
```

Next, we want to establish DHCP snooping on at least one VLAN
```
SW1(config)# ip dhcp snooping vlan 10
```
We can also use a range of VLANs with this command, or a comma separated list of VLANs.


If you want to ensure that the client hardware address matches the source MAC address field in DHCP messages, use the MAC address verification feature of DHCP snooping.
```
SW1(config)# ip dhcp snooping verify mac-address
```

If you want to ensure that *spurious* DHCP servers are detected on the network and disabled, use the following:
```
SW1(config)# ip dhcp snooping detect spurious vlan 20-25
SW1(config)# ip dhcp snooping detect spurious interval 50
```
The interval is in minutes.

We can also set up rate limiting of DHCP messages on a per interface basis. The rate is in packets per second (pps). The recommended rate is 100 pps.
```
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# ip dhcp snooping limit rate 100
```

It is recommended to use the DHCP snooping database agent to preserve the bindings across a switch reboot.
```
SW1(config)# ip dhcp snooping database tftp://10.1.1.1/directory/file
```

The last step you want to perform is enabling it globally. If you haven't configured the ports properly first, DHCP snooping will drop any DHCP requests and clients will not be served.
```
SW1(config)# ip dhcp snooping
```

To see the contents of the DHCP snooping binding table, use the **show ip dhcp snooping binding** command.
```
Router# show ip dhcp snooping binding
MacAddress IpAddress Lease(sec) Type VLAN Interface
------------------ --------------- ---------- ------------- ---- --------------------
00:02:B3:3F:3B:99 55.5.5.2 6943 dhcp-snooping 10 GigabitEthernet6/10
 ```