---
name: 7.1.14
title: 7.1.14 - 802.1x
short-title: 802.1x
category: 7.1 Layer 2 Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: written
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.1.14.html
folder: security
---
IEEE 802.1x is a port-based authentication system for authentication, authorization, and accounting. It prevents all traffic except *Extensible Authentication Protocol over LAN (EAPOL)* from passing through the port until the client machine is authenticated.

The key to understanding 802.1X is that it is a client-server model with the switch acting as the intermediary.

{% include image.html file="8021x.jpg" %}

Here are the roles from the above diagram defined:
- Client: workstation runs a 802.1x compliant client software and requests access to the LAN. Also called a *Supplicant*
- Authentication Server: authenticates the Client and notifies the switch whether or not the client is authorized to access the LAN
- Switch: also called the authenticator and back-end-authenticator. The switch controls physical access to the network based on the authentication status of the client. The switch includes the RADIUS client, which is responsible for encapsulating and decapsulating the EAP frames and interacting with the authentication server

The switch initially receives EAPOL frames from the client. The switch strips the Ethernet header and reencapsulates the remaining EAP frame in the RADIUS format.

It is possible to configure a fallback authentication method, such as MAC authentication bypass or webauth, in case the authentication server cannot be reached. It is also possible to have a guest VLAN for clients that do not support 802.1x authentication.

If the switch receives an invalid identity from the client and a restricted VLAN is configured, the switch can assign the client to a restricted VLAN that provides limited services.

There are multiple host modes available:
- single-host mode: one client can be connected
- multiple-hosts mode: multiple hosts can be connected with only one of the hosts needing to authenticate to give all hosts access
- multidomain mode: allows an IP Phone and a single host behind the phone to authenticate independently, using MAC authentication bypass (MAB) or web based authentication (for the host)
- multiauthentication mode: allows 1 802.1x client on the voice VLAN and multiple 802.1x/webauth clients on the data VLAN

Here is a basic configuration for 802.1x:
```
SW1(config)# aaa new-model
SW1(config)# aaa authentication dot1x default group radius
SW1(config)# dot1x system-auth-control
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# authentication port-control auto
SW1(config-if)# dot1x pae authenticator
SW1(config-if)# exit
```
You would then need to define the RADIUS server:
```
SW1(config)# ip radius source-interface VLAN80
SW1(config)# radius-server host 192.168.17.1
SW1(config)# radius-server key CISCO
```

There are many other configuration options for 802.1x that are beyond the scope of the CCIE, as this is a written only topic.
