---
name: 7.1.7
title: 7.1.7 - Port Security
short-title: Port Security
category: 7.1 Layer 2 Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.1.7.html
folder: security
---
Port Security is used to limit the authorized users of a port to particular MAC addresses. These MAC addresses can be dynamically learned or statically defined. You can also place a limit on the maximum number of unique MAC addresses that can be learned from a port. These learned MAC addresses can be set to age out after a set period of time.

After you define allowed static MAC addresses, or port-security learns its allowed dynamically learned MAC address, the secured port will no longer forward ingress traffic outside of the defined address range. When a device attempts to send traffic towards a secure port that does not match the allowed MAC address list, a security violation occurs and the deafult action is for the port to enter an errDisabled state with a cause of "psecure-violation".

The idea of a "sticky" MAC address is that if a port that has port security enabled dynamically learns a MAC address, and the port is configured to allow learned MAC addresses (and it is under its maximum allowed MAC addresses for that port), the switch can remember the learned MAC address, even during a link-down condition. This gives a dynamically learned MAC address many of the same benefits as a statically defined address. Further, if you use **copy running-config startup-config** the learned MAC addresses will be saved and will be preserved across a switch reboot.

Port security can be configured on access ports or trunk ports. Here is a base configuration on an access port:
```
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# switchport
SW1(config-if)# switchport mode access
SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security
SW1(config-if)# exit
```
The default settings allow 1 MAC address and the default action is to shutdown the port if a security violation occurs. You can optionally set the violation method to protect or restrict.
```
SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security violation restrict
```
We can also increase the maximum number of MAC addresses on a port.
```
SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security maximum 10
```
On a trunk port we can even specify a maximum number per VLAN:
```
SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security maximum 10 vlan 2-5
```
To enable the Sticky MAC address feature, you add the following line:
```
SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security mac-address sticky
```
All dynamically learned secure MAC addresses on the port are converted to sticky secure MAC addresses after configuring the above command. This command does not affect statically defined secure MAC addresses. If you use the **no** version of this command it does not remove the MAC addresses, but just removes their "sticky" feature. As noted earlier to be able to preserve the sticky MAC addresses across a reboot, you must copy the running configuration to the startup configuration.

If you want to set the MAC address aging time on a port, use the following:
```
SW1(config-if)# switchport port-security aging time 10
```
The time is in minutes and the default is 0, which means do not age.

We can also use auto-recovery with port security. This allows us to define a recovery interval after which time security violations are cleared and the port clears its errDisabled status without administrator intervention.
```
SW1(config)# errdisable recovery cause psecure-violation
SW1(config)# errdisable recovery interval 600
```
The recovery interval is in seconds.

Port security is not considered to be a reliable protection mechanism in the real world, as MAC addresses can easily be spoofed. IEEE 802.1x is a much more robust edge security solution.



