---
name: 7.2.1
title: 7.2.1 - AAA Authentication Lists
short-title: AAA Authentication Lists
category: 7.2 Management Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.2.1.html
folder: security
---
#### Device Security Overview
Since we will be talking security, I feel a review of device user security is warranted. This will help us easily understand the advanced authentication methods covered in the CCIE.

The first two command modes a user may face when logging in to a Cisco router is User EXEC mode and Privileged EXEC Mode. User EXEC Mode is set by default to privilege level 1, while Privileged EXEC mode is set to privilege level 15.

There are two ways a user may enter Privileged EXEC mode. First, by means of the **enable** command. Second, by the use of a username that has a privilege level set to 15. We have seen in previous studies that we should always use **enable secret** to set the enable password.

Cisco networking devices use the word "lines" to refer to teh software components that manage local and remote CLI sessions. Remote CLI sessions use lines that are referred to us **vty** lines. To change the amount of time for login input, use the following:
```
R1(config-line)# timeout login response 10
```
This would change it to 10 seconds. The IOS default is 30 seconds.

To encrypt the clear text passwords as they are stored in the configuration file, you should use the **service password-encryption** global configuration command. This is not needed when the only authentication type is MD5, as MD5 will by default store an encrypted password in the configuration file.

One thing to always keep in mind is that IOS software will never prompt you to verify a password. As soon as you type it in and hit enter, it becomes active. Special care should always be taken when configuring passwords for this reason. One safeguard is to keep two CLI sessions open when configuring passwords, and test the new configuration on one session while keeping the other CLI logged in and active. Another safeguard is not make sure you do not do a **copy running-config startup-config** until you have verified the password.

To create a local user account, use the following line:
```
R1(config)# username bsrandall privilege 15 secret CISCO
```
#### AAA Authentication Lists
WIth AAA authentication, you can define a named list of authentication methods and apply the list to various interfaces. The list is just the **aaa authentication** command followed by an ordered list of the authentication methods you want to use for the list. If you use the "default" name for the list, then the list is by default applied to all interfaces. If you use a custom name, then you must explicitly apply the list to an interface.
```
R1(config)# aaa new-model
R1(config)# aaa authentication login LOCAL_LOGIN local
R1(config)# line vty 0 4
R1(config-line)# login authentication LOCAL_LOGIN
```

You can also define a server group within aaa.
```
R1(config)# aaa group server radius RADIUS_GROUP
R1(config-sg-radius)# server 192.168.17.240
R1(config-sg-radius)# server 192.168.17.241
R1(config-sg-radius)# exit
R1(config)# radius-server host 192.168.17.240 auth-port 1645 acct-port 1646
R1(config)# radius-server host 192.168.17.241 auth-port 1645 acct-port 1646
R1(config)# aaa authentication login default group RADIUS_GROUP local
R1(config)# aaa authorization exec default group radius if-authenticated
```
The **if-authenticated** keyword grants privileged access to the user as they as they authenticate. We will cover more on this in the next topic.

As you can see with the 2 examples above, you use either the **default** list or you use a named list, and you follow that up with a sequential list of the methods of authentication allowed. "group radius" and "group tacacs" are other login methods used. If used without a specified group as we did in the 2nd example, "group radius" would refer to all available and defined radius servers.

With aaa, you can also define the authentication methods for privileged access:
```
R1(config)# aaa new-model
R1(config)# aaa authentication enable default group tacacs enable
```

AAA authentication lists are easy, you just have to remember that you have to provide the keyword *default* or a list name followed by a sequential list of the authentication methods allowed. The *group* kyword before radius or tacacs just means to use all the defined servers for that method. But if you use *group* GROUPNAME, then you are referncing a potential subset of the authentication servers defined on the device.

#### Additional AAA
Here are some additional aaa tools you may find useful.

If you want to change the text displayed at the password prompt, use this:
```
R1(config)# aaa authentication password-prompt "Please enter your secure password"
```

If you want to implement a custom Login Banner, use the following:
```
R1(config)# aaa new-model
R1(config)# aaa authentication banner #
R1(config)# "This is my new banner"
R1(config)# #
```
The # sign is used as the delimiter in this example. You can also define a failed login banner:
```
R1(config)# aaa authentication fail-message #
R1(config)# "STOP, INTRUDER ALERT!"
R1(config)# #
```