---
name: 7.2.7
title: 7.2.7 - Role-Based CLI
short-title: Role-Based CLI
category: 7.2 Management Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.2.7.html
folder: security
---
Role-based CLI Access is a feature that provides selective or partial access to EXEC and configuration mode commands. The idea is that views restrict user access to IOS CLI and command line information. You can configure a maximum of 15 views. Compared to just using privilege levels, CLI views provide more detailed access control capability. There are a couple of predefined views.

Root View is equivalent to a user who has level 15 privileges. The difference between a user who has level 15 priveleges and a root view user is that a root view user can configure a new view and add or remove commands from the view.

A Lawful Intercept View restricts access to specified commands and configuration information. This view gives a user secure access to lawful intercept commands that are held within the TAP-MIB with a special set of SNMP commands that store information about calls and users.

A Superview consists of one or more CLI views, which allow users to define what commands are accepted and what configuration information is visible. No commands can be added to a superview - that must be added to one of the CLI views that is part of the Superview.

View authentication is performed by an external AAA server via the **cli-view-name** command.

Here is an example of configuring a CLI view:
```
R1> enable view
R1# config t
R1(config)# parser view first inclusive
R1(config-view)# secret 5 PASSWORD
R1(config-view)# commands exec include show version
R1(config-view)# commands exec exclude configure terminal
R1(config-view)# command exec include logout
R1(config-view)# exit
```

Here is an example for configuring a lawful intercept view.
```
R1> enable view
R1# config t
R1(config)# li-view lipass user li_admin password PASS
R1(config)# username lawful-intercept li_user1 password LI_PASS
```

Finally, we will have a look at a Superview configuration.
```
R1> enable view
R1# config t
R1(config)# parser view SV superview
R1(config-view)# secret 5 PASSWORD
R1(config-view)# view VIEW_1
R1(config-view)# view VIEW_2
R1(config-view)# exit
```

 

