---
name: 7.2.2
title: 7.2.2 - AAA Exec Authorization
short-title: AAA Exec Authorization
category: 7.2 Management Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.2.2.html
folder: security
---
The AAA authorization feature is used to determine what a user can and cannot do. Authorization occurs after authentication and relies on authentication to work properly. Like we saw with authentication, method lists are used to define the authorization methods to be used for a particular authorization type. The authorization types include:
- auth-proxy
- commands
- exec
- network
- reverse access

As we saw with authentication method lists, aaa authorization method lists must be applied to specific lines or interfaces before any authorization is performed, with the exception of the **default** list that can be used with the *default* keyword in the method list.

AAA supports a total of 5 different methods of authorization:
- TACACS+
- If-Authenticated
- Local
- LDAP
- RADIUS

In addition, you can use the **none** method if you do not want authorization to be performed on particular lines or interfaces.

Putting all of this together, let's say we wanted to set up authorization on EXEC shell access and we wanted to use the default RADIUS servers. If those RADIUS servers were not available, we should fallback to the if-authenticated method of authorization. The configuration would look like this:
```
R1(config)# aaa new-model
R1(config)# aaa authentication login RADIUS local
R1(config)# aaa authorization default group radius if-authenticated
R1(config)# line vty 0 4
R1(config-line)# login authentication LOCAL_LOGIN
```
Since we used the *default* method list, we do not have to apply the authorization method list to the VTY lines.