---
name: 7.2.5
title: 7.2.5 - IOS Login Enhancements
short-title: IOS Login Enhancements
category: 7.2 Management Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.2.5.html
folder: security
---
The Cisco IOS Login Enhancements (Login Block) feature allows users to enhance the security of a router by configuring options to automatically block further login attempts when a possible DoS attack is detected.

The two features are specifically called *login block* and *login delay*. Both features can be used for SSH or Telnet virtual connections. By enabling th login block feature you can slow down dictionary attacks by enforcing a quiet period if multiple failed connection attempts are detected. Legitimate connection attempts can still be permitted during a quiet period by configuring an ACL with the addresses you know to be associated with system administrators. With login delay, you can mitigate DoS type attacks by implementing a mandatory delay between successive login attempts.

For login block, you define the number of failed connection attempts that trigger the quiet period with the global configuration mode command **login block-for**. The predefined ACL that is excluded from the quiet period can be specified through the **login quiet-mode access-class ACL_NAME** global configuration command.
```
R1(config)# login block-for <seconds> attempts <tries> within <seconds>
R1(config)# login quiet-mode access-class <ACL>
```

For login delay, there are 3 ways in which you can introduce the delay. First, the **auto secure** command will automatically introduce a 1 second delay between login attempts.
```
R1(config)# auto secure
```

Second, if you use the **login block-for** command by itself, it will also introduce a default 1 second delay between login attempts.
```
R1(config)# login block-for 30 attempts 3 within 10
```

Third, you can use the new global configuration command **login delay** which allows you to specify login delay time to be enforced, in seconds.
```
R1(config)# login block-for 30 attempts 3 within 10
R1(config)# login quiet-mode access-class ADMIN
R1(config)# login delay 60
```

This information was taken from [here](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios-xml/ios/sec_usr_cfg/configuration/15-mt/sec-usr-cfg-15-mt-book/sec-login-enhance.html)