---
name: 7.4.6
title: 7.4.6 - Filtering Packets with Dynamic Access-Lists
short-title: Filtering Packets with Dynamic Access-Lists
category: 7.4 Data Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.4.6.html
folder: security
---
Dynamic access lists, also called Lock-and-Key, is a traffic filtering security feature that allows users to temporarily gain access to send traffic through the router after authenticating through a telnet session to the router. After authentication occurs, locak-and-key reconfigures the interface's existing IP access list to permit the authenticated user to reach his designated host. Afterwards, lock-and-key reconfigures the IP access list of the interface back to its original state.

With lock-and-key, you can specify which users are permitted access to which source and destination hosts. These users must pass a user authentication process before they are permitted access to their designated hosts. Lock-and-key does this, without compromising other configured security restrictions.

The security authentication for lock-and-key can be done locally on the router or via RADIUS or TACACS+.

Once the user passes authentication, they are logged out of the telnet session. The user then has access to their designated host until a configured timeout is reached or when an administrator clears their session. The timeout can be either an idle timeout or an absolute timeout - there is no mechanism to have the session deleted immediately when the authenticated user terminates the session.
```
R1(config)# access-list 101 permit cp any host 192.168.17.1 eq telnet
R1(config)# access-list 101 dynamic AUTH_LIST timeout 120 permit ip any any
R1(config)# line vty 0 4
R1(config-line)# login local
R1(config-line)# autocommand access-enable timeout 5
R1(config-line)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip access-group 101 in
R1(config-if)# exit
```
