---
name: 7.4.16
title: 7.4.16 - Flexible Packet Matching
short-title: Flexible Packet Matching
category: 7.4 Data Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.4.16.html
folder: security
---
Flexible Packet Matching is an access list pattern matching tool, providing more thorough and customized packet filters. FPM enables users to match on arbitrary bits of a packet at an arbitrary depth in the packet header and payload. FPM removes constraints to specific fields that had limited packet inspection. Here are some key points about FPM:
- FPM is stateless, so it cannot be used by protcolos that dynamically negotiate ports.
- FPM cannot be used on control plane traffic, as the feature is implemented in CEF. The only inspected packet is the initial fragment of the packet flow.
- IP packets with IP options are not matched by FPM
- FPM only inspects unicast packets and does not apply to MPLS encapsulated packets

Configuring a FPM filter consists of 4 steps:
1. Loading protocol headers (optional)
2. Defining a protocol stack (optional)
3. Defining a traffic filter.
4. Applying the policy and verifying.

FPM uses Protocol Header Description Files (PHDF) to define packet headers so that you may then filter based on header field names and their values. PDHF files can be manually created using standard XML or downloaded from Cisco, and then loaded into the router's memory with the **load protocol** command.

If you loaded PHDF files you can then use them to specify parameters in the PHDF you wish to inspect. You define the protocol stack with the command **class-map type stack match-all \<NAME\>**. The class map then defines a series of match entries. Each entry specifies:
- a protocol name defined in loaded PDHFs
- a header field value
- next protocol name found higher in the stack

An example would be **match field ETHER type eq 0x800 next IP**.

The order of the match entries is actually important. They should be ordered from Layer 1 up the stack. The **next** match statement should define the protocol specified in the next clause of the previous match statement. There are a number of operators available in the match entry - eq, neq, range, string, regex, lt, and gt are all valid.

By default, the protocol stack is matched after the data-link layer, which in real life means the IP header. If you need to match starting at layer 2, use the command **stack-start l2-start**.

If you are not defining a traffic filter, the next step is to create a policy-map of type "access-control" and assign a stack class to the policy map. You have the choice to drop the matching packets or log them, and can also use the **send-responds** command under a class to make the router send an ICMP unreachable response. Without defining a traffic filter you cannot match the packets payload, but you can filter based on addresses, protocol flags, and so on.

A Traffic filter is defined by means of a special class-map of type "access-control". Using this type of class map you can match the protocol field values using the command **match field \<PROTO\>** if the respective PHDF has been loaded. If you match the protocol fields, then the policy map using the newly defined access-control class map must be nested *under* the stack-type class map defining this protocol.

You can also match the payload at a fixed offset against a pre-defined value, value range, string or regular expression.

The access-control policy map is then applied to an interface either inbound or outbound using the interface command **service-policy type access-control \{input \| output\} \<NAME\>**.

INE has a great writeup [here](http://blog.ine.com/2009/06/14/understanding-flexible-packet-matching/).
