---
name: 7.4.13
title: 7.4.13 - Packet Logging with Access-Lists
short-title: Packet Logging with Access-Lists
category: 7.4 Data Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.4.13.html
folder: security
---
With any access-list entry you can use the **log** keyword, which will make IOS log the matching packets via Syslog. With extended access lists, you have the option to use the **log-input** keyword which will log the ingress interface and MAC address as well as the packet's source and destination address and ports.

The first packet that triggers the access list entry causes an immediate logging message, and subsequent packets are collected over 5-minute intervals before they are displayed or logged. The logging message includes the access list number, whether the packet was permitted or denied, the source IP of the packet, and the number of packets from that source permitted or denied in the prior 5-minute interval.

The logging-update threshold can be used to signify how many times the packet must hit the access-list entry to generate a logging message. By default this value is zero, which means the router would generate an entry based on a periodic timeout of 5 minutes. This command serves the purpose of aggregating the hits on the entry.
```
R1(config)# ip access-list log-update threshold <HIT-COUNT>
```
When this value is non-zero, the router generates a log entry for every number of hits you specify, and also produces the periodic 5 minute logging message.

There is another tuner you can use to improve access list logging performance. Remember that every logged packet is process switched. You may want to limit the number of packets that are process switched using the command below.
```
R1(config)# ip access-list logging interval <Milliseconds>
```
This command allows only one packet per interval to be process switched. All exceeding packets are not process-switched and thus are not accounted for logging purpose. By default this feature is off and all packets are process switched. You would use this to give you a hint of what might be going wrong, not when you need the detailed statistics.

The final tuning method for access list logging involves adjusting the Syslog rate limit. This applies to all syslog messages, not just access list logging.
```
R1(config)# logging rate-limit <Messages-Per-Second>
```
