---
name: 7.4.17
title: 7.4.17 - IPv6 First Hop Security: RA Guard
short-title: IPv6 First Hop Security:
category: 7.4 Data Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.4.17.html
folder: security
---
#### First Hop Security
The first hop in this term is talking about the access layer - the network segment between end hosts and their default gateway. First hop security prevents against internal threats at the access layer.

Remember, ICMPv6 Neighbor Discovery replaces IPv4 ARP. ICMPv6 Neighbor Discovery uses 4 messages:
- NS: Neighbor Solicitation
- NA: Neighbor Advertisement
- RS: Router Solicitation
- RA: Router Advertisement

Man in the middle attacks are the main threat when it comes to ICMPv6 Neighbor Discovery. Remember the steps that an IPv6 host takes when joining a segment:
1. Create a link-local address using FE80::/10 and EUI
2. Duplicate Address Detection sent to link-local solicited node multicast
3. Send a Neighbor Advertisement to all hosts multicast FF02::1 including link-local address plus MAC address

Next, an IPv6 host needs to find the routers on the segment.
1. Host sends a Router Solicitation message to the all routers multicast FF02::2
2. Router replies with Router Advertismenet message that contains the router's IPv6 address and MAC, as well a prefix information for SLAAC
3. Host combines prefix with EUI-64 to form its IPv6 global address
4. Host performs Duplicate Address Detection on new global IPv6 address
5. Host sends NA, Neighbor Advertisement message telling those on its segment its assigned IPv6 global address as well as its MAC address

Based on the above two processes, there are several malicious attacks that could occur:
- Spoof the Router by flooding RA messages on the segment. Result is MiM or DoS attack.
- Spoof the DHCPv6 server. Result is DoS or possible MiM if combined with RA messages (DHCPv6 does not advertise a default gateway)
- Poison the router's ND cache by sending a Neighbor Advertisement message advertising your MAC address as the MAC address for some other host's IP address
- Overload the router's ND cache by sending packets to entire /64 range.

#### RA Guard
RA Guard allows you to block or reject unwanted router advertisement messages that arrive at the network device. The IPv6 RA Guard feature analyzes these router advertismenets and filters out RAs that are sent bu unauthorized devices. This is a control plane security feature, and is typically implemented on a switch that connects devices on the same first hop segment. You would set this up on an access switch typically and define the router and host roles for an RA policy. You would then apply the policy to an interface or range of interfaces. The configuration has many steps which require some explanation.
```
SW1(config)# ipv6 nd raguard policy KNOWN_ROUTERS
SW1(config-ra-guard)# device-role router
SW1(config-ra-guard)# match ra prefix-list PREFIXES
SW1(config-ra-guard)# exit
SW1(config)# ipv6 nd raguard policy HOSTS
SW1(config-ra-guard)# device-role host
SW1(config-ra-guard)# match ipv6 access-list ROUTERS
SW1(config-ra-guard)# exit
SW1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
SW1(config-if)# ipv6 nd raguard attach-policy KNOWN_ROUTERS vlan all
SW1(config-if)# exit
SW1(config)# interface range GigabitEthernet0/2-23
SW1(config-if-range)# ipv6 nd raguard attach-policy HOSTS vlan 2-10
SW1(config-if-range)# exit
```