---
name: 7.4.11
title: 7.4.11 - TCP Intercept
short-title: TCP Intercept
category: 7.4 Data Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.4.11.html
folder: security
---
TCP Intercept works to protect TCP servers from TCP SYN flooding attacks, which are a type of denial-of-service attack. A SYN flooding attack occurs when a hacker floods a server with a barrage of requests for connection. Because these messages have unreachable return addresses, the connections cannot be established, and the server becomes overwhelmed and can no longer service valid connection requests.

The TCP Intercept feature helps prevent SYN flooding attacks by intercepting and validating TCP connection requests. It works by intercepting TCP Synchronization packets from clients to servers that match a defined extended access list. The IOS software then established a connection to the requesting client on behalf of the destination server, and if successful, establishes a connection to the server on behalf of the client. It then knits the two connections together transparently. The result is that connection attempts from unreachable hosts will never reach the server.

When configuring TCP intercept, you can choose to intercept all requests or only those coming from specific networks or destined for particular servers. You can also configure the connection rate and threshold of outstanding connections.

If TCP Intercept is used, TCP Options that are negotiated on handshake (such as window scaling) will not be negotiated because the TCP intercept software does not know what the server can do or will negotiate.

To configure TCP Intercept, you first define an extended access list to protect the servers (destinations) that might be subject to SYN attacks. The source is usually *any*.
```
R1(config)# ip access-list extended TCP_INTERCEPT
R1(config-ext-nacl)# permit tcp any 192.168.17.5 0.0.0.0
```
If there is no match on the access-list, then the router allows the request to pass without further inspection. To set the mode to intercept, use the following:
```
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept mode intercept
```
And then to define the list that determines which connections are examined use:
```
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept list TCP_INTERCEPT
```

When under attack, the TCP intercept feature becomes more aggressive in its protective behavior. If the number of incomplete connections exceeds 1100 or the number of connections arriving in the last one minute exceeds 1100, each new arriving connection causes the oldest partial connection to be deleted. Also, the initial retransmission timeout is reduced by half to 0.5 seconds (so the total time trying to establish a connection is cut in half). You could optionally change the behavior to drop a random packet rather than the oldest.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept drop-mode random
```

By default the software waits 30 seconds for a watched connection to reach established state before sending a reset to the server. To change this value provide a seconds vlaue as input to the following command:
```
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept watch-timeout 30
```
The system will maintain a connection for 24 hours, even if no activity exists. To change this provide the seconds argument to the following command:
```
ip tcp intercept connection-timeout 3600
```

When the router determines an attack is under way it will transition to aggressive mode. If either of these two exceed their set threshold, the router will transition to aggressive mode:
- the total number of incomplete connections
- the total number of connection requests during the last one-minute period

The router will not exit aggressive mode until both of these go below their configured thresholds.

To set the thresholds for maximum incomplete connections, use the below commands. The default values for low and high are 900 and 1100 respectively.
```
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept max-incomplete low 800
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept max-incomplete high 1200
```
The high threshold triggers aggressive behavior while the low threshold must be achieved before the router exits aggressive mode.

To change the thresholds for the connection requests received in the last 1 minute period, use the following:
```
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept one-minute low 800
R1(config)# ip tcp intercept one-minute high 1200
```
The default thresholds are once again 900 and 1100.







