---
name: 7.4.3
title: 7.4.3 - Traffic Filtering Using Reflexive Access-Lists
short-title: Traffic Filtering Using Reflexive Access-Lists
category: 7.4 Data Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.4.3.html
folder: security
---
Reflexive access lists provide filtering on upper-layer IP protocol sessions. They contain temporary entries that are automatically created when a new IP session begins. They are typically implemented on border routers. Reflexive access lists are nested inside extended, named IP access lists. Because of this nesting, a reflexive access-list does not have an implicit deny at its end.

You can use reflexive access lists to permit IP traffic for sessions originating from within your network, but to deny IP traffic for sessions originating from outside your network.

You can only define a relexive access list by using an extended named access lists. You cannot use numbered or named standard access lists nor can you use numbered extended access lists.

How do reflexive access lists differ from other access lists? Reflexive access lists contain only *temporary* entries. These entries are created when a new IP session begins (for example, with an outbound packet), and the entries are removed when the session ends. They are most similar to a basic access list used with the **established** keyword for a TCP session. Reflexive access lists are much harder to spoof than a basic access list with the **established** keyword, though, as reflexive access lists match on more criteria and are temporary in nature. Also, reflexive access lists can be used with more than just TCP traffic.

Here are the characteristics of the temporary entries in a reflexive access list:
- the entry is a **permit** entry
- the entry specifies the same protocol as the original outbound packet
- the entry swaps the source and destination addresses and port numbers from the original outbound packet (ports included if TCP or UDP)

Temporary reflexive access lists are removed at the end of the session. With TCP this is detected by the FIN bits. With UDP and other protocols, there is no session tracking so the end of session is considered to be when no packets of the session have been detected for a configurable amount of time.

You can configure relexive access lists on either an internal or an external interface. Establishing it on an external interface prevents traffic from entering the router and the internal network, unless the traffic is part of a session already established by the internal network. If configured on an internal interface, you can allow traffic into a DMZ while also preventing traffic from entering your internal network, unless the traffic is part of a session already established from within the internal network. Configuration is different depending on which of these two designs you use.

For external interface configuration, you would perform these steps:
1. define the reflexive access list in an *outbound* IP extended named access list
2. nest the reflexive access list in an *inbound* IP extended named access list
3. set a global timeout value

For internal interface configuration, these are the necessary steps:
1. define the reflexive access list in an *inbound* IP extended named access list
2. nest the reflexive access list in an *outbound* IP extended named access list
3. set a global timeout value

To define a reflexive access list, you use an entry in a named extended access list with the **reflect** keyword. You would then nest the reflexive access list inside another named extended access list by using the **evaluate** keyword. Here is an example of an *external* interface configuration:
```
R1(config)# ip access-list extended OUTBOUND
R1(config-ext-nacl)# 10 permit tcp any any reflect TCP_TRAFFIC
R1(config-ext-nacl)# exit
R1(config)# ip access-list extended INBOUND
R1(config-ext-nacl)# permit eigrp any any
R1(config-ext-nacl)# deny icmp any any
R1(config-ext-nacl)# evaluate TCP_TRAFFIC
R1(config-ext-nacl)# exit
R1(config)# ip reflexive-list timeout 120
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip access-group INBOUND in
R1(config-if)# ip access-group OUTBOUND out
R1(config-if)# exit
```

Next, we look at an example of an *internal* interface configuration.
```
R1(config)# ip access-list extended INBOUND
R1(config-ext-nacl)# 10 permit tcp any any reflect TCP_TRAFFIC
R1(config-ext-nacl)# exit
R1(config)# ip access-list extended OUTBOUND
R1(config-ext-nacl)# permit eigrp any any
R1(config-ext-nacl)# deny icmp any any
R1(config-ext-nacl)# evaluate TCP_TRAFFIC
R1(config-ext-nacl)# exit
R1(config)# ip reflexive-list timeout 120
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip access-group INBOUND in
R1(config-if)# ip access-group OUTBOUND out
R1(config-if)# exit
```
Notice the inbound and outbound is swapped when compared to the external interface configuration, because inbound traffic to the router interface would be the trusted traffic from the internal network. Traffic out of the port would be toward the internal (LAN) network.