---
name: 7.4.9
title: 7.4.9 - Preventing Packet Spoofing with uRPF
short-title: Preventing Packet Spoofing with uRPF
category: 7.4 Data Plane Security
collection: security
layout: page
exam: both
sidebar: security_sidebar
permalink: 7.4.9.html
folder: security
---
The Unicast Reverse Path Forwarding feature helps to mitigate problems that are caused by the introduction of malformed or spoofed IP source addresses into a network. uRPF accomplishes this by discarding IP packets that lack verifiable IP source addresses. We saw uRPF previously as a tool used in multicast networks.

When Unicast RPF is enabled on an interface of a device, the device examines all packets received as input on that interface to ensure that the source address and source interface information appears in the routing table and matches the interface on which packets are received. This ability to “look backwards” is available only when Cisco Express Forwarding is enabled on a device because the lookup relies on the presence of a Forwarding Information Base (FIB). Cisco Express Forwarding generates a FIB as part of its operation.

If the reverse path matches one of the best reverse paths from the FIB table, the packet is forwarded as normal. This is often called symmetric routing. If uRPF cannot find a reverse path for the packet, the packet is dropped or forwarded, depending on whether an ACL is specified using the **ip verify unicast source reachable-via** command.

You typically want to deploy uRPF at the edges of your network, such as the WAN connection to your ISP. You do not want to deploy uRPF to internal interfaces, as those interfaces are likely to have asymmetric routing to certain destinations.

By default, uRPF allows packets with 0.0.0.0 as the source IP address abd 255.255.255.255 as the destination IP address to pass through a network to enable BOOTP and DHCP functions to work properly when Unicast RPF is configured.

```
R1(config)# ip cef
R1(config)# ip access-list extended 101
R1(config-ext-nacl)# permit ip 201.14.17.255 0.0.0.8 192.168.17.0 0.0.0.255
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/0
R1(config-if)# ip verify unicast source reachable-via any 101
R1(config-if)# exit
```
The access-list at the end of the **ip verify unicast source reachable-via** is optional.

The legacy command was **ip verify unicast reverse-path**.

uRPF has two modes, strict mode and losse mode. With strct mode, the router applies the uRPF check to the source IP address of incoming packets. The source IP address must match an explicit IP route in the routing table, and the next hop for this entry should point out of the interface from which the packet was received. Otherwise the router will drop the packet. Strict mode is enabled with the **rx** command.
```
R1(config-if)# ip verify unicast source reachable-via rx
```
Loose mode only checks to ensure that it has a route to the source address - it does not verify that the next hop for the source address points out the received interface or out of another interface on the router. This is often used in enterprise networks where multiple ISP exit paths exist, which creates asymmetric routing chances.
```
R1(config-if)# ip verify unicast source reachable-via any
```
