---
name: 4.1.8
title: 4.1.8 - PE-CE Routing with RIP
short-title: PE-CE Routing with RIP
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.8.html
folder: vpn
---
#### Connected and Static Routes
Before diving into the routing protocols to be used for PE-CE routing, we need to first look at connected routes. It is best practice to redistribute the connected routes on the PE router into BGP. That way, when the user launches a ping from a CE router to the remote CE router, the return packet is routed back. By default, if the user sends a ping and does not specify the source IP address, it takes as the source IP address the IP address of the outgoing interface, which in the case of a CE router is an IP address from the subnet on the PE-CE link. As such, the return packet has this IP address as the destination IP address. Thus, this prefix must be known on the remote sites for the ping to succeed. You can choose not to distribute the connected subnets into BGP, but then you have to launch a ping from CE to CE by specifying a different source IP address on the CE router. Then you must include this IP address in the specific PE-CE routing protocol.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf cust-one
R1(config-af)# redistribute connected
R1(config-af)# redistribute static
```
If using static routes, you should redistribute those as well as shown above.

#### RIPv2
Even though MP-BGP is the carrier routing protocol for MPLS VPNs, a wide variety of PE-CE routing protocols could be used. The PE-CE routing protocols run independently at every site, relying on MP-BGP to exchange their routing information. The route exchange is performed via prefix redistribution between the MP-BGP process and the respective PE-CE routing protocol. Several features have been added to MP-BGP to preserve some valuable routing protocol information that otherwise might be lost during redistribution. These features vary from one PE-CE routing protocol to another.

With RIPv2 you may enable the respective address family under the process configuration mode using the command address-family ipv4 vrf <VRF_NAME> . You may then specify the network commands as usual. Notice that the timer settings, version, and auto-summary settings are global for all VRFs with this approach. When you need to redistribute the MP-BGP routes into RIP, use the command **redistribute bgp \<N\> metric\[X \| transparent\]** under the respective address family. Here, N is the BGP process number (AS#) and X is the metric assigned to the RIP routes. If you are using the keyword **transparent** , the RIP metrics will be recovered from the BGP MED attribute, which in turn is copied from RIP metrics learned at the remote site. This allows for transparent preservation of RIPv2 metric values across the VPN and better path selection in case of backdoor links.

Naturally, if you want to inject the respective VRF’s RIP routes into BGP, you simply redistribute them under the corresponding address-family. The MED value for the new VPNv4 prefixes will be initialized from the RIP metrics of the redistributed routes.
```
R1(config)# router rip
R1(config-router)# version 2
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf VPN_B
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute bgp 100 metric transparent
R1(config-router-af)# network 155.1.0.0
R1(config-router-af)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 65534
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf VPN_B
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute rip
R1(config-router-af)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.58
R1(config-if)# ip vrf forwarding VPN_B
R1(config-if)# ip address 155.1.58.5 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# exit
```

One thing to note. The CE can be running its interface inside the VRF or outside. If it is outside, you would configure RIP as normal. If it is running inside the VRF, you need to configure it inside the address-family ipv4 vrf as above.