---
name: 4.1.1
title: 4.1.1 - VRF Lite
short-title: VRF Lite
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.1.html
folder: vpn
---
A VRF is a Virtual Routing and Forwarding table. It is a way to make multiple routing tables and keep them entirely separate from each other as well as separate from the router's global routing table. A VRF can contain many interfaces, but an interface can only belong to one VRF. Each interface can then be associated with exactly 1 VRF (or the global routing table). The configuration is easy and straightforward:
```
R1(config)# ip vrf blue
R1(config-vrf)# rd 1:1
R1(config)# ip vrf blue
R1(config-vrf)# rd 1:2
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# ip vrf forwarding red
R1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/2
R1(config-if)# ip vrf forwarding blue
R1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# exit
```
Notice that there can be IP address overlap between VRFs.

WHen you assign an interface to a VRF, it wipes any previously configured IP address from the interface to avoid potential address duplication in the new routing table. As would be expected, VRFs can only be used on Layer 3 interfaces.

You may extend VRFs beyond a single router by properly mapping the VRFs to the links connecting two routers. This results in parallel VPNs being run across multiple devices, also known as VRF Lite, the most basic way to build VPNs. This is the simplest way of creating non-overlapping VPNs in a network; however, this solution has poor scalability, because you must allocate a dedicated inter-router link for every VPN. Therefore, if you have two routers and 100 VPNs, you must provision 100 connections between the two routers, one for every VPN. The connection could be either a separate interface or some Layer 2 virtualization technique, such as Frame-Relay PVC or Ethernet VLAN.

After configuring the VRFs, you must define a route distinguisher (RD) for this particular VRF using the command **rd X:Y** , where X and Y are 32-bit numbers. A Route Distinguisher is a special 64-bit prefix prepended to every route in the respective VRF routing table. This is done for the purpose of distinguishing the prefixes and avoiding collisions if two VRFs contain the same prefixes as these IPv4 prefixes are carried in MP-BGP across the provider network. WIthout BGP, as in VRF Lite, they are still needed to keep the routes separate inside the router. The common format for an RD is the combination **ASN:NN**, where ASN is the autonomous system number and NN is the VRF number inside the router, or more globally, the VPN number within the ASN. Alternatively, you may use the format **IP-Address:NN**, where IP is the router’s IP address and NN is the VRF name. The second format properly reflects the feature of RD being a local distinguisher, but using the format ASN:NN is more popular and common, because it easily associates a VRF with a particular VPN in the network. The 96 bit identifier formed when combining the 64-bit RD and the 32-bit IPv4 address is also called a **vpnv4** prefix.

It is possible to associate static routes or dynamic routing protocol processes with the VRFs. 
```
R1(config)# ip route vrf red 192.168.17.0 255.255.255.0 10.10.123.1
```

The problem with VRF Lite is its lack of scalability. To configure hundreds of customers would involve provisioning separate links or VLANs between routers for every unique VRF.