---
name: 4.1.7
title: 4.1.7 - MP-BGP Prefix Filtering
short-title: MP-BGP Prefix Filtering
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.7.html
folder: vpn
---
As we found in the previous task, route-target tagging applies to all routes injected from VRF into a BGP process; sometimes we need more granular control over route tagging. To accomplish this, Cisco IOS has a feature known as export/import maps. They are configured under the VRF configuration context using the command **\[import\|export\] map \<ROUTE_MAP_NAME\>** . The special export route-map associated with the VRF could match the prefixes based on the prefix-lists, access-lists, or extended- communities. All routes not permitted in an export route-map are not exported into the BGP process. The export route-map may also be used to set the extended- community attribute selectively, using the command **set extcommunity rt** . This
allows for selective tagging of VPN routes.

The import map is used less often than the export map, but still has some good use cases. First, it allows controlling all routes imported into VRF from BGP based on prefix-lists, access-lists, or extended/standard communities (or any other applicable BGP attribute). This might be helpful when, for example, you want to import all other sites' routes with the exception of the default route. Notice that by default, all prefixes not permitted with the import-map are implicitly denied and not imported.
```
R1(config)# ip prefix-list LOOP permit 172.16.5.0/24
R1(config)# route-map BLUE_EXPORT permit 10
R1(config-route-map)# match ip address prefix-list LOOP
R1(config-route-map)# set extcommunity rt 100:55
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# ip vrf BLUE
R1(config-vrf)# export map BLUE_EXPORT
R1(config-vrf)# route-target import 100:66
R1(config-vrf)# exit
```
