---
name: 4.1.20
title: 4.1.20 - VPLS
short-title: VPLS
exam: written
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.20.html
folder: vpn
---
Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) emulates a LAN segment across the MPLS backbone across pseudowires or virtual circuits. VPLS creates one or more LANs for each customer who is using the service from the service provider. When the customer with different Ethernet sites connects to an MPLS backbone where VPLS is deployed, it appears as if all the sites are interconnected through a virtual Ethernet switch.

The need for VPLS exists because EoMPLS does not scale, just as point-to-point links do not scale. With VPLS, each pair of PE routers have pseudowires between them to carry the Ethernet frames. Each pseudowire consists of two label switched paths, one for each direction. If the PE routers are not fully meshed for one VPLS instance, a spanning tree protocol is required to keep the Layer 2 topology loop free. However, a simpler mechanism was chosen to keep the forwarding free of loops. The PE routers need to be in a full mesh of pseudowires, and the PE routers perform split-horizon in Layer 2 forwarding. Split-horizon here means that a flooded frame that is received on one pseudowire will never be forwarded to other pseudowires.

Similar to an Ethernet switch, MAC addresses are aged out after a certain period of time.

VPLS requires a full mesh of pseudowires between PE routers for each VPLS instance. When you configure the VPLS instance on the PE router, you must also specify the VPLS neighbors of this PE router. That means you must specify all the remote PE routers for this PE router for that one VPLS instance.

You set up a VPLS by first creating a virtual forwarding instance (VFI) on each participating PE device. The VFI specifies the VPN ID of a VPLS domain, the addresses of other PE devices in the domain, and the type of tunnel signaling and encapsulation mechanism for each peer PE device.
```
R1(config)# l2 vfi CUST_ONE manual
R1(config-vfi)# vpn id 100
R1(config-vfi)# neighbor 150.0.1.2 encapsulation mpls
R1(config-vfi)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.100
R1(config-if)# xconnect vfi CUST_ONE
```
The set of VFIs formed by the interconnection of the emulated VCs is called a VPLS instance; it is the VPLS instance that forms the logic bridge over a packet switched network. After the VFI has been defined, it needs to be bound to an attachment circuit to the CE device. The VPLS instance is assigned a unique VPN ID.

PE devices use the VFI to establish a full-mesh LSP of emulated VCs to all other PE devices in the VPLS instance. PE devices obtain the membership of a VPLS instance through static configuration using the Cisco IOS CLI.

A full-mesh configuration allows the PE device to maintain a single broadcast domain. When the PE device receives a broadcast, multicast, or unknown unicast packet on an attachment circuit (AC), it sends the packet out on all other ACs and emulated circuits to all other CE devices participating in that VPLS instance. The CE devices see the VPLS instance as an emulated LAN.

A VPLS instance on a particular PE device receives Ethernet frames that enter on specific physical or logical ports and populates a MAC table similarly to how an Ethernet switch works. The PE device can use the MAC address to switch these frames into the appropriate LSP for delivery to the another PE device at a remote site.

If the MAC address is not available in the MAC address table, the PE device replicates the Ethernet frame and floods it to all logical ports associated with that VPLS instance, except the ingress port from which it just entered. The PE device updates the MAC table as it receives packets on specific ports and removes addresses not used for specific periods.