---
name: 4.1.6
title: 4.1.6 - MP-BGP VPNv4
short-title: MP-BGP VPNv4
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.6.html
folder: vpn
---
MP-BGP VPNv4 is another name for MPLS VPN. The purpose of MPLS VPNs is to establish a full-mesh of dynamic MPLS LSRs between the PE (Provider Edge) routers and use those for tunneling VPN packets across the network core. To select the proper VRF instance on the endpoint PE router, an additional label is needed that selects the proper FIB entry associated with the target VRF. This requires two labels in the MPLS stack; one label (the topmost) is the transport label, which is being swapped along the entire path between the PEs, and the other label (innermost) is the VPN label, which is used to select the proper outgoing VRF CEF entry. BGP was chosen as the universal prefix redistribution protocol for MPLS VPNs.

To support these new features, BGP functionality has been enhanced to handle the VRF specific routes. A new special MP-BGP (multiprotocol BGP) address family named **VPNv4** (VPN IPv4) has been added to BGP along with a new NLRI format.

Every VPNv4 prefix has the RD associated with it and the corresponding MPLS label, in addition to the normal BGP attributes. This allows for transporting different VPN routes together and performing best-path selection independently for each different RD. The VPNv4 address-family capability is activated per-neighbor using the respective address-family configuration. By default, when you create a new BGP neighbor using the command **neighbor \<I\P> remote-as \<NR\>** , the default IPv4 unicast address-family is activated for this neighbor. If for some reason you don’t want this behavior and only need the VPNv4 prefixes to be sent, you may disable the default behavior via the command **no bgp default ipv4-unicast** .

There are special limitations for iBGP peering sessions that you want to enable for VPNv4 prefix exchange. First, they must be sourced from a Loopback interface, and second, this interface must have a /32 mask (this is not a strict requirement on all platforms). This is needed because the BGP peering IP address is used as the NEXT_HOP for the locally originated VPNv4 prefixes. When the remote BGP router receives those prefixes, it performs a recursive routing lookup for the NEXT_HOP value and finds a label in the LFIB. This label is used as the transport label in the receiving router. Effectively, the NEXT_HOP is used to build the tunnel or the transport LSP between the PEs. The VPN label is generated by the BGP process on the advertising router and directly corresponds to the local VRF route. The /32 restriction is needed to guarantee that the transport LSP terminates on the particular PE router, and not some shared network segment.

To inject a particular VRF’s routes into BGP, you must activate the respective address-family under the BGP process and enable route redistribution (such as static or connected). All the respective routes belonging to that particular VRF will be injected into the BGP table with their RDs and have their VPN labels generated.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 65534
R1(config-router)# no bgp default ipv4-unicast
R1(config-router)# address-family vpnv4 unicast
R1(config-router-af)# neighbor 150.1.4.4 activate
R1(config-router-af)# neighbor 150.1.4.4 send-community extended
R1(config-router-af)# exit
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf BLUE
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute connected
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute static
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```
The 150.1.4.4 in this scenario would be the ingress PE that you wanted to send your vpnv4 routes to.

The import process is a bit more complicated and is based on the concept of Route Targets. A Route Target is a BGP extended community attribute. These BGP attributes are transitive and encoded as 64-bit values (as opposed to normal 32-bit communities). They are used for enhanced tagging of VPNv4 prefixes. The need for route-target arises from the fact that you cannot just use Route Distinguishers for prefix importing/exporting, because routes with the same RD may eventually belong to multiple VRFs, when you share their routes.

Here is how route-target-based import works. By default, all prefixes redistributed from a VRF into a BGP process are tagged with the extended community X:Y specified under the VRF configuration via the command **route-target export X:Y** . You may specify as many export commands as you want to tag prefixes with multiple attributes. On the receiving side, the VRF will import the BGP VPNv4 prefixes with the route-targets matching the local command **route-target import X:Y** . The import process is based entirely on the route-targets, not the RDs. If the imported routes used to have RDs different from the one used by the local VRF, they are naturalized by having the RD changed to the local value. Theoretically, you may assign a route-target to every VPN site, and specify fine-tune import policies, to select the remote site routes accepted locally. Finally, notice that the use of the command **route-target both X:Y** means import and export statements at the same time.
```
R1(config)# ip vrf BLUE
R1(config-vrf)# route-target both 65534:1
```
