---
name: 4.1.12
title: 4.1.12 - EIGRP Site-of-Origin
short-title: EIGRP Site-of-Origin
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.12.html
folder: vpn
---
With multi-homed scenarios similar to the ones we are using, BGP and EIGRP perform mutual redistribution at PE routers. This may potentially result in transient routing loops, when a prefix is withdrawn in MP-BGP at one PE router and it is not timely propagated into EIGRP. EIGRP could then feed the invalid information back to BGP at another PE router, keeping the false information circulating between the PE routers until it’s eliminated by counting to infinity. The core of this problem is the mutual redistribution that allows the information learned from BGP at one site to re- enter BGP at another site. This problem is commonly resolved by tagging the prefixes from one protocol while redistributing them into another, and then blocking the prefixes from re-entering the domain of origin based on the tag.

Implementing this solution using EIGRP route tags and BGP communities could be cumbersome if done using regular methods. Therefore, Cisco IOS implements a special feature known as EIGRP Site-of-Origin (SoO), which uses an extended community appended to BGP and EIGRP routing updates (EIGRP’s TLV format allows adding this information easily). The feature is configured at the interface level using the command **ip vrf sitemap \<ROUTE_MAP\>** , where ROUTE_MAP is a regular route-map that applies the command **set extcommunity soo ASN:XX** , where ASN:XX is the “VPN identifier” common for all PEs of the same multi-homed site.

All BGP prefixes redistributed into EIGRP and sent over the interface with the SoO set will have this extended community appended, but only if the community is not already present. If the update to be sent already has the same extended community value set, it is discarded as being redistributed back to the same site. The next thing that this feature does is apply the same extended community to all EIGRP routes received on the interface and redistributed into BGP. All these actions are performed by IOS automatically; you need only apply the route-map to the relevant interfaces.

There are two common ways of applying the VRF Sitemap feature. First, the SoO is applied on the PE interfaces facing the CE routers. Every PE router uses the same SoO value. This prevents PE routers from learning MP-BGP originated routes from CE routers. However, the side-effect is that the MPLS core cannot be used as a backup path between the segments of the multi-homed sites if the backdoor link fails. This is because MP-BGP updates for in-site EIGRP prefixes carry the same SoO that is applied to the PE interfaces facing the CE routers and therefore cannot be redistributed back to the same site.

The second method of applying the sitemap feayure is used if you need to preserve the path across the MPLS core network, You need to use different SoO values at every PE of a multihomed site to implement in this manner. However, this means that the MP-BGP information injected into EIGRP at one PE router will reach the other PEs without being blocked. To prevent this effect, an additional SoO interface should be configured on the CE routers with the backdoor link.
```
R1(config)# route-map EIGRP_SOO
R1(config-route-map)# set community soo 100:15
R1(config-route-map)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.13
R1(config-if)# ip vrf sitemap EIGRP_SOO
R1(config-if)# exit
```
