---
name: 4.1.9
title: 4.1.9 - PE-CE Routing with OSPF
short-title: PE-CE Routing with OSPF
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.9.html
folder: vpn
---
OSPF is a link-state routing protocol, which relies on building a network topology table prior to calculating the optimal routes. However, as we remember, MPLS VPNs rely on using MP-BGP to transport the routing information across the MPLS backbone. This means that no OSPF adjacencies can be established across the core. Note that OSPF uses distance-vector-like updates sent across Area 0 to redistribute routing information between different areas. This allows for interpreting the MP-BGP cloud as one “super area 0” that is used to link all OSPF areas at different sites. This special “virtual area” is called the OSPF super-backbone, and it is emulated by passing OSPF VRF routing information in MP-BGP updates. The use of the super-backbone allows us to avoid using area 0 at all, because the super-backbone performs the same function. Therefore, we can have non-zero OSPF areas at different VPN sites connecting via the MP-BGP mesh without the need for an area 0 at any site. However, it’s perfectly okay to have area 0 at different sites along with non-zero areas attached to the super-backbone as well. The main design principle that should be followed is that all areas are connected to the super- backbone in a loopless start-like manner.

We briefly discussed BGP extended communities before. With OSPF, special extended communities are used to propagate additional OSPF prefix information. All OSPF routes redistributed into MP-BGP are treated pretty much like Type 3 summary LSAs, because they enter the super-backbone from other areas. When injected into BGP, OSPF prefixes have several extended-community attributes attached to them. One of the attributes is known as domain-id, which is equal to the OSPF process numbers on the local router OR explicitly configured using the command **domain-id** under the OSPF process. The purpose of this attribute is to identify OSPF processes belonging to different VPNs. It is assumed that you configured all OSPF processes within the same VPN using the same domain-id (such as the same process number). If for some reason you exchange routes between two different VPNs using different domain-ids, the OSPF process will interpret all such prefixes as if they are Type-5 External LSAs, effectively external routes.

Another extended community attribute is known as the OSPF route-type, which has three significant fields: source area, route-type, and option. They are usually depicted as triple X:Y:Z. Here, Y=2 for intra-area learned prefix, Y=3 for inter-area routes, Y=5 for external prefixes, and Y=7 for NSSA routes. The last value, Z, is the metric type for Y=5 or 7—it’s either 1 for E1 or 2 for E2. Notice that all routes redistributed from BGP into OSPF appear like inter-area routes even if they belong to the same area number at different sites. This effect occurs because the LSAs cross the super-backbone and essentially are inter-area routes. The route type lets the remote PE router figure out what kind of route to advertise in OSPF. If the route type is 1, 2, or 3 (corresponding to LSA types 1, 2, or 3), the remote PE router advertises an interarea summary route (LSA type 3) into the OSPF area.

Another BGP attribute used to carry OSPF information is MED or metric, which copies the original route’s metric from the routing table. The route-type attribute is needed to allow for proper OSPF best-path calculation when routes are inserted into the OSPF database based on redistribution from BGP. Notice that the routes traveling the MP-BGP cloud do not increment their metric unless you manually change the MED attribute for incoming BGP prefixes. This might be needed sometimes for proper OSPF best-path selection.

The Area number and OSPF Router ID are also carried as BGP attributes.

All the above mechanics are implemented automatically after you configure route redistribution between a VRF process and BGP. Notice that you create a separate OSPF process for every VRF using the command **router ospf \<X\> vrf \<NAME\>** , unlike RIP, where the whole process is shared among VRFs.

The fact that there is an additional backbone area could introduce the possibility of routing loops if for some reason the VPN sites are not connected in a star-like manner. To reduce this risk, OSPF implements some basic loop prevention rules.

First, all summary LSAs generated from the routes redistributed from BGP into OSPF (egress PE to CE) have a special “Down” bit set in the LSA headers. If a router receives a summary-LSA with the down bit set on an interface that belongs to a VRF, it simply drops this LSA. This would occur if the CE advertised the route back towards the PE. This is to prevent the case of routing loops for multi-homed sites, when a summary LSA is flooded across the CE site and delivered back to another PE. However, this feature may have an undesirable effect when you have a CE router configured with multiple VRFs. In this case, you may want to enter the OSPF process command **capability vrf-lite** on the CE router. This will disable the default loop-prevention capability. Be advised that some IOS versions do not support this feature (such as older IOSs or some Catalyst IOS revisions). If you have such a router configured for multi-VRF and experience route black holing, configure the PE routers with different domain-IDs; this will force all redistributed routes to become external and bypass the down-bit check. Note that in newer IOS versions, such as the one used in this example, the down bit is also included in Type-5 LSAs. **capability vrf-lite** would be needed in this case as well, and it is the reason why it is used in the solution.

The other feature is based on the route tagging. All routes redistributed via a particular PE will carry the OSPF route tag with the BGP AS number encoded inside. The receiving router that has VRFs enabled will compare the AS number in the tag with the local BGP AS number. If they match, this could mean the LSA has looped back to another PE connecting the same site to the MPLS backbone. If for some reason you encounter this issue and need to get rid of it, simply apply a proper tag to the redistributed routes—for example, using the OSPF command
**redistribute bgp N subnets tag Y** .
```
R1(config)# router ospf 100 vrf BLUE
R1(config-router)# domain-id 0.0.0.5
R1(config-router)# redistribute bgp 100 subnets
R1(config-router)# network 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255 area 1
R1(config-router)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf BLUE
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute ospf 100 vrf BLUE metric 10 match internal external 1 external 2
R1(config-router-af)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.58
R1(config-if)# ip vfr forwarding BLUE
R1(config-if)# ip address 155.1.58.5 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# exit
```





