---
name: 4.1.7
title: 4.1.17 - MPLS VPN Performance Tuning
short-title: MPLS VPN Performance Tuning
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.17.html
folder: vpn
---
MPLS VPNs utilize MP-BGP as the transport for IGP routing updates between VPN sites. BGP was designed as a highly scalable protocol; this, however, limits its ability to quickly propagate changes in the network topology. One of the reasons for this is the goal to maintain network stability, which, of course, slows convergence. Thus, it is not uncommon to see network changes at one site take a minute or even more to propagate to other sites, even with “fast” protocols such as OSPF and EIGRP. The following factors affect the amount of time it takes to propagate a topology change from one PE to another across the MP-BGP core:
- The time it takes for the IGP update to be redistributed into BGP. In the past, this was limited by the **bgp scan-interval** general scanning interval, but recent IOS versions made this feature event driven. This makes IGP-to-BGP route redistribution almost instant.
- The time it takes the local BGP speaker and other BGP speakers to propagate updates to their peers. This time is controlled by the timer known as the peer advertisement-interval. This interval specifies the periodic “batching” of events: BGP waits for the timer to expire and accumulates the updates instead of sending every one immediately. The purpose of this is to prevent a constant load on the peer’s CPU for best-path re-calculations. In versions of the code prior to 12.0(32)S, the default interval was 5 seconds and could be set as low as 0 seconds using the command **neighbor \<IP\> advertisement-interval** . In recent versions of the code, the advertisement-interval is set to 0 for iBGP peers and VPNV4 eBGP peers (PE-CE).
- The time it takes the PE router’s BGP process to import the MP-BGP VPNv4 prefixes into the local VRF table. This timer is controlled by the command **bgp scan-time import \<5-60\>** , which should be entered under the VPNv4 address-family configuration. The default value is 15 seconds, and setting it to 5 seconds may significantly decrease the update propagation time. This method of speeding up the convergence has also been deprecated, though. A new enhanced way of importing routes into the VRF exists called "Event-Based VPN Import." Instead of waiting for the 5-15 seconds that the scan time would take causing delay, the paths can be immediately imported as soon as a change is detected, allowing the PE routers to propagate the change to CE routers without having to wait for the scan-time to run. This feature gives control via a configurable policy as to which paths to import.
