---
name: 4.1.18
title: 4.1.18- AToM
short-title: AToM
exam: written
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.18.html
folder: vpn
---
Any Transport over MPLS (AToM) was developed years after the huge success of MPLS VPN. AToM provides a solution whereby the MPLS backbone also carries the Layer 2 traffic from the customers, thereby eliminating the need to run two separate networks side by side. Thus, the service provider can provide an existing service (ATM, Frame Relay, and so on) over the MPLS backbone. Using only one network infrastructure to provide both MPLS VPN and AToM services enables the service provider to save money. AToM is sometimes referred to as L2VPN.

he AToM intelligence is limited to the provider edge (PE) routers. Therefore, AToM is an edge technology—like MPLS VPN—that uses an MPLS backbone. Unlike MPLS, AToM is limited to creating point-to-point links. Since AToM lives on the provider edge, no changes have to be made to the provider's core in order to support it.

To create the pseudowire between PEs with AToM, you would use this on each of the interfaces facing the peer PE:
```
R1(config)# pseudowire-class ONE
R1(config-pw-class)# encapsulation mpls
R1(config-pw-class)# exit
R1(config)# interface Serial0/1
R1(config-if)# encapsulation hdlc
R1(config-if)# xconnect 10.1.1.2 27 pw-class ONE
```
Here 27 is the VCID that you assign to uniquely identify the pseudowire. It should be the same on both sides of the pseudowire but has to be unique to other pseudowires.

AToM can also be used to carry Ethernet over MPLS in a point-to-point fashion. It can be an ethernet port or a dot1q trunk. LDP will signal a different VC Type, 4 for dot1q mode and 5 for port mode.

The configuration is not that different from the serial interface configuration above.
```
R1(config)# pseudowire-class ONE
R1(config-pw-class)# encapsulation mpls
R1(config-pw-class)# exit
R1(config)# interface FastEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# no ip address
R1(config-if)# xconnect 10.1.1.2 27 pw-class ONE
```
And here is a configuration if the EoMPLS pseudowire needed to carry trunks.
```
R1(config)# pseudowire-class ONE
R1(config-pw-class)# encapsulation mpls
R1(config-pw-class)# exit
R1(config)# interface FastEthernet0/1
R1(config-if)# no ip address
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# interface FastEthernet0/1.100
R1(config-if)# encapsulation dot1q 100
R1(config-if)# xconnect 10.1.1.2 21 pw-class ONE
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# interface FastEthernet0/1.200
R1(config-if)# encapsulation dot1q 200
R1(config-if)# xconnect 10.1.1.2 22 pw-class ONE
R1(config-if)# exit
```

