---
name: 4.1.11
title: 4.1.11 - PE-CE Routing with EIGRP
short-title: PE-CE Routing with EIGRP
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.11.html
folder: vpn
---
EIGRP can be the PE-CE routing protocol. The usual disadvantage of the redistribution between iBGP and the routing protocol between the PE and CE router is present here, too. This means that redistributing the routes from BGP into EIGRP makes all the routes external EIGRP routes. However, as much EIGRP information as possible is coded in new BGP extended communities to alleviate the problem. This enables the remote PE router to reconstruct the EIGRP route with all its characteristics, including metric components, AS, TAG and, for external routes, the remote AS number, the remote ID, the remote protocol, and the remote metric. These are the EIGRP characteristics of a prefix that you can find in the topology table. If the EIGRP-advertised route is internal, the route is advertised as an internal route into the remote site if the destination AS matches the source AS carried by the BGP extended community. If the AS numbers do not match, the route is reconstructed as an external EIGRP route. Below are the BGP Extended Communities for EIGRP.

| **Type** | **Value** |
| 0x8800 | Flags + TAG |
| 0x8801 | ASN + Delay |
| 0x8802 | Reliability + Hop Count + BW |
| 0x8803 | Reserved + Load + MTU |
| 0x8804 | Remote ASN + Remote ID |
| 0x8805 | Remote Protocol + Remote Metric |

You may be wondering - why not just carry the calculated metric in the MED field instead of sending all the metric components in BGP Extended Communities? The reason is teh remote router may have different EIGRP k values and have a different resulting metric.

Another special attribute used with EIGRP prefixes redistributed into MP-BGP is known as the “cost attribute.” Although this attribute was designed to have pretty wide use, the main idea is to change the BGP best-path selection process. The problem with MPLS VPN route redistribution is that the same route may enter the PE’s BGP table using redistribution (learned from a CE router) and via a BGP update (learned from a remote site). Per the BGP best-path selection process, locally redistributed prefixes have a BGP weight of 32768, which make them always win the best-path selection process. Therefore, BGP will always choose the locally received update even if the remote site has better a EIGRP metric to reach the destination.

To resolve this issue, EIGRP prefixes redistributed into MP-BGP will have the Cost attribute value set to their composite metric. The BGP process will honor the Cost attribute value before ANY other best-path selection option if the attribute is present. The prefix with the lowest cost will immediately win the best-path selection and will be redistributed into the local EIGRP process. This process happens automatically and does not require any additional configuration. Notice that the Cost attribute is NOT needed with OSPF because the prefixes received via MP-BGP are treated as inter-area and are always less preferred compared to the same prefixes learned as intra-area from a CE device. When RIP is used for PE-CE routing, Cisco IOS does not implement the Cost attribute at all, so the locally redistributed prefixes will always get preferred over MP-BGP learned prefixes, preventing effective RIP deployment in scenarios with backdoor links.

The cost community is set manually with **set extcommunity cost** command in a route-map. The cost community is turned on automatically when using EIGRP over MPLS VPN, so typically there is no configuration involved.

When configuring EIGRP for MPLS VPNs, the same process is shared among multiple VRFs. An address family must be configured per VRF under the routing process, and for every address-family you must configure an AS number using the command **autonomous-system N** . This command is mandatory to enable EIGRP for that particular VRF. After that, you need only enter the normal network statements as in any EIGRP configuration.
```
R1(config)# router eigrp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf BLUE
R1(config-router-af)# autonomous-system 100
R1(config-router-af)# network 155.1.58.5 0.0.0.0
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute bgp 100 metric 1 1 1 1 1
R1(config-router-af)# exit
R1(config-router)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf BLUE
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute eigrp 100
R1(config-router-af)# exit
```
