---
name: 4.1.2
title: 4.1.2 - MPLS LDP
short-title: MPLS LDP
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.2.html
folder: vpn
---
#### Label Distribution Protocol (LDP)
Remember there are two ways to distribute labels in an MPLS network: piggyback the labels on an IGP or distribute them with a separate protocol. Label Distribution Protocol (LDP) was created for that purpose. It carries the label bindings for the Forwarding Equivalence Classes (FECs) in the MPLS network. One exception is Border Gateway Protocol (BGP). Because BGP carries exterior routes, it is deemed more efficient if it carries the labels, too, next to the prefixes. Because BGP is already multiprotocol anyway, it can be made to carry label information with little effort. A second reason for choosing BGP to carry the label information is the fact that BGP is the only protocol distributing prefixes between autonomous systems.
That is why the label bindings for all IGP prefixes in the routing table are distributed by LDP and all label bindings for BGP routes in the routing table are distributed by BGP in Cisco IOS.

The label operation (swap, push, pop) is known to each LSR along an LSP by looking into the LFIB. The LFIB — which is the table that forwards labeled packets—is fed by the label bindings found in the LIB. The LIB is fed by the label bindings received by LDP or MP-BGP.

All directly connected LSRs must establish an LDP peer relationship or LDP session between them. he LDP peers exchange the label mapping messages across this LDP session. A label mapping or binding is a label that is bound to a FEC. The FEC is the set of packets that are mapped to a certain LSP and are forwarded over that LSP through the MPLS network. LDP has 4 main functions:
- The discovery of LSRs running LDP
- Session establishment and maintenance
- Advertising of label mappings
- Housekeeping by means of notification

##### LDP Operation
##### Neighbors and Hellos
LSRs that are running LDP send LDP Hello messages on all links that are LDP enabled. These are all the interfaces with **mpls ip** configured on them. First, however, you must enable CEF with the global **ip cef** command. Then you must enable LDP globally with the **mpls ip** global command.

LDP Hello messages are UDP messages that are sent on the links to the “all routers on this subnet” multicast IP address—in other words, to the 224.0.0.2 group IP multicast address. The UDP port used for LDP is 646. The LSR that is receiving this LDP Hello message on a certain interface is then aware of the presence of this LDP router on that interface. The Hello message contains a Hold time. If no Hello message is received from that LSR before the Hold time expires, the LSR removes that LSR from the list of discovered LDP neighbors. To discover whether the LSR sends and receives LDP Hellos, the Hello interval, and the Hold time, use the **show mpls ldp discovery \[detail\]** command. If LDP Hello messages are sent and received on an interface, there is an LDP adjacency across the link between two LSRs that are running LDP.

To change the interval between sending Hello messages or to change the LDP Hold time, you can use the command **mpls ldp discovery \{hello \{holdtime \| interval\} seconds**.

The default value for the **holdtime** is 15 seconds for link Hello messages, while the default for the interval is 5 seconds. If two LDP peers have different LDP hold times configured, the smaller of the two values is used as the Hold time for that LDP discovery source. If not using the default Cisco IOS may overwrite the configured LDP Hello interval to ensure that at least 3 Hellos can be sent within the *interval* period.

To show the LDP neighborships that have formed, use the following:
```
R4#sh mpls ldp neighbor
    Peer LDP Ident: 150.1.5.5:0; Local LDP Ident 150.1.4.4:0
	TCP connection: 150.1.5.5.26331 - 150.1.4.4.646
	State: Oper; Msgs sent/rcvd: 146/143; Downstream
	Up time: 01:58:02
	LDP discovery sources:
	  GigabitEthernet0/1.45, Src IP addr: 155.1.45.5
        Addresses bound to peer LDP Ident:
          155.1.5.5       155.1.45.5      155.1.58.5      169.254.100.5
          150.1.5.5       155.1.0.5
    Peer LDP Ident: 150.1.6.6:0; Local LDP Ident 150.1.4.4:0
	TCP connection: 150.1.6.6.646 - 155.1.146.4.56090
	State: Oper; Msgs sent/rcvd: 14/13; Downstream
	Up time: 00:02:02
	LDP discovery sources:
	  GigabitEthernet0/1.146, Src IP addr: 155.1.146.6
        Addresses bound to peer LDP Ident:
          155.1.146.6     150.1.6.6
```

##### LDP ID
As almost all protocols do, LDP has an ID that uniquely identifies a device, called the LDP ID. It is a 6-byte field that consists of 4 bytes identifying the LSR and 2 bytes identifying the label space that the LSR is using. If the last two bytes are 0, the label space is the platform-wide or per- platform label space. If they are non-zero, a per-interface label space is used. If that is the case, multiple LDP IDs are used, where the first 4 bytes are the same value, but the last two bytes indicate a different label space. If loopback interfaces exist, the highest IP address of the loopback interfaces is taken for the LDP ID or LDP router ID. If no loopback interfaces exist, the highest IP address of an interface is taken. You can change the LDP ID manually with **mpls ldp router-id \<interface\> \[force\]**

In Cisco IOS, the MPLS LDP router ID needs to be present in the routing table of the LDP neighboring routers. If it is not, the LDP session is not formed. Therefore, the IP address that is the LDP router ID on the router must be included in the routing protocol of the LSR. If for that IP address there is no route in the routing table, the LDP session is not established.

##### Session Establishment
If two LSRs have discovered each other by means of the LDP Hellos, they attempt to establish an LDP session between them. One LSR tries to open a TCP connection—to TCP port 646—to the other LSR. If the TCP connection is set up, both LSRs negotiate LDP session parameters by exchanging LDP Initialization messages.


If the LDP peers agree on the session parameters, they keep the TCP connection between them. If not, they retry to create the LDP session between them, but at a throttled rate. In Cisco IOS, the LDP backoff command controls this throttling rate:
```
R1(config)# mpls ldp backoff \<initial-backoff\> \<maximum-backoff\>
```
The initial-backoff parameter is a value between 5 and 2,147,483, with a default of 15 seconds. The maximum-backoff is a value between 5 and 2,147,483, with a default of 120 seconds. This command slows down the LDP session setup attempts of two LDP LSRs, when the two neighboring LDP peers are incompatible in terms of the parameters they exchange. If the session setup attempt fails, the next attempts are undertaken at an exponentially increased time, until the maximum backoff time is reached.

After the LDP session has been set up, it is maintained by either the receipt of LDP packets or a periodic keepalive message. Each time the LDP peer receives an LDP packet or a keepalive message, the keepalive timer is reset for that peer.

WIth per-platform label space, there is just one active session between the LDP peers.

##### Advertising Label Mappings
There are 3 modes in which an LSR can operate:
- label distribution mode
- label retention mode
- LSP control mode

###### Label Distribution Modes
There are two modes in MPLS to distribute label bindings:
- Downstream-on-Demand (DoD) label distribution mode
- Unsolicited Downstream (UD) label distribution mode

In the DoD mode, each LSR requests its next-hop (that is, downstream) LSR on an LSP, a label binding for that FEC. Each LSR receives one binding per FEC only from its downstream LSR on that FEC. The downstream LSR is the next-hop router indicated by the IP routing table.

In the UD mode, each LSR distributes a binding to its adjacent LSRs, without those LSRs requesting a label. In the UD mode, an LSR receives a remote label binding from each adjacent LSR.
###### Label Retention Modes
Two label retention modes exist:
- Liberal Label Retention (LLR) mode
- Conservative Label Retention (CLR) mode

In LLR mode, an LSR keeps all received remote bindings in the LIB. One of these bindings is the remote binding received from the downstream or next hop for that FEC. The label from that remote binding is used in the LFIB, but none of the labels from the other remote bindings are put in the LFIB; therefore, not all are used to forward packets. Why keep the labels around that are not used? Routing is dynamic in a network. At any time, the routing topology can change—for example, due to a link going down or a router being removed—therefore, the next-hop router for a particular FEC can change. At that time, the label for the new next-hop router is already in the LIB and the LFIB can be quickly updated with the new outgoing label.

The second label retention mode is CLR mode. An LSR that is running this mode does not store all remote bindings in the LIB, but it stores only the remote binding that is associated with the next-hop LSR for a particular FEC.
###### LSP Control Modes
LSRs can create a local binding for a FEC in two ways:
- Independent LSP Control Mode
- Ordered LSP Control Mode

The LSR can create a local binding for a FEC independently from the other LSRs. This is called Independent LSP Control mode. In this control mode, each LSR creates a local binding for a particular FEC as soon as it recognizes the FEC. Usually, this means that the prefix for the FEC is in its routing table.

In Ordered LSP Control mode, an LSR only creates a local binding for a FEC if it recognizes that it is the egress LSR for the FEC or if the LSR has received a label binding from the next hop for this FEC.

###### LDP and LSR modes
No matter what mode the LDP peers operate in, the purpose is to advertise label bindings. The downstream LSR is found by looking up the next hop for that prefix in the routing table. Only the remote binding associated with that next-hop LSR should be used to populate the LFIB. This means that only one label from all the advertised label bindings from all the LDP neighbors of this LSR should be used as outgoing label in the LFIB for that prefix. The problem is that the label bindings are advertised as (LDP Identifier, label) without the IP addresses of the interfaces. This means that to find the outgoing label for a particular prefix, you must map to the LDP Identifier the IP address of the interface—pointing back to this LSR—on the downstream LSR. You can only do this if each LDP peer advertises all its IP addresses. These IP addresses are advertised by the LDP peer with Address messages and withdrawn with Withdraw Address messages. You can find these addresses when you are looking at the LDP peer. They are called the bound addresses for the LDP peer.

Each LSR assigns one local label to each IGP prefix in the routing table. This is the local label binding. These local bindings are stored in the LIB on the router. Each of these labels and the prefixes they are assigned to are advertised via LDP to all the LDP peers. These label bindings are the remote bindings on the LDP peers and are stored in the LIB.
```
london#show mpls ldp bindings
lib entry: 10.200.210.0/24, rev 4
        local binding:  label: imp-null
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.5:0, label: 16
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.1:0, label: imp-null
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.3:0, label: 19
  lib entry: 10.200.211.0/24, rev 12
        local binding:  label: imp-null
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.5:0, label: 18
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.1:0, label: 32
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.3:0, label: imp-null
  lib entry: 10.200.254.1/32, rev 31
        local binding:  label: 24
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.5:0, label: 22
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.1:0, label: imp-null
        remote binding: lsr: 10.200.254.3:0, label: 26
...
```
As you can see, for each prefix, the LSR always has one local binding and one remote binding per LDP peer. Note that LDP assigns local labels to all IGP prefixes and advertises the bindings to all LDP peers. The concept of split horizon does not exist; an LDP peer assigns its own local label to a prefix and advertises that back to the other LDP peer, even though that other LDP peer owns the prefix (it is a connected prefix) or that other LDP peer is the downstream LSR.

To see the LFIB, use:
```
R4#sh mpls forwarding-table
Local      Outgoing   Prefix           Bytes Label   Outgoing   Next Hop
Label      Label      or Tunnel Id     Switched      interface
16         Pop Label  150.1.5.5/32     0             Gi0/1.45   155.1.45.5
17         Pop Label  150.1.6.6/32     0             Gi0/1.146  155.1.146.6
18         Pop Label  155.1.5.0/24     0             Gi0/1.45   155.1.45.5
19         Pop Label  155.1.58.0/24    0             Gi0/1.45   155.1.45.5
R4#
```



##### LDP Housekeeping
Notification messages are needed for the housekeeping of LDP sessions. The notification messages signal significant events to the LDP peer. These events might be fatal errors (Error Notifications) or simple advisory information (Advisory Notifications). If a fatal error occurs, the sending LSR and receiving LSR should terminate the LDP session immediately. Advisory Notifications are used to send information about the LDP session or a message received from the peer.

##### Targeted LDP Session
Normally, LDP sessions are set up between directly connected LSRs. In a network in which the IGP routes need to be labeled, this is sufficient, because the label switching of packets is hop per hop. Therefore, if the label bindings are advertised hop per hop for the IGP routes, the LSPs are set up. However, in some cases, a remote or targeted LDP session is needed. This is an LDP session between LSRs that are not directly connected.

For directly connected neighbors, you only need to enable **mpls ip** on the interface; the LDP peers discover each other and create the LDP TCP session between them. For LDP neighbors that are not directly connected, the LDP neighborship needs to be configured manually on both the routers with the **mpls ldp neighbor targeted** command.
```
R1(config)# mpls ldp neighbor [vrf <vpn-name>] <ip-address> targeted [ldp | tdp]
```
To connect two LDP peers that are not directly connected by using a **mpls ldp neighbor targeted** command on both peers. You can also set up one peer with the **mpls ldp neighbor targeted** command and then use **mpls ldp discovery targeted-hello accept [from acl]** command on the other remote peer.


#### LDP Authentication
LDP sessions are TCP sessions. TCP sessions can be attacked by spoofed TCP segments. To protect LDP against such attacks, you can use Message Digest 5 (MD5) authentication. MD5 adds a signature—called the MD5 digest—to the TCP segments. The MD5 digest is calculated for the particular TCP segment using the configured password on both ends of the connection. The configured MD5 password is never transmitted. This would leave a potential hacker having to guess the TCP sequence numbers and the MD5 password. In Cisco IOS, you can configure MD5 for LDP by configuring a password for the LDP peer with the following command:
```
**mpls ldp neighbor [vrf <vpn-name>] <ip-address> password [0-7] <passowrd>**
```
To make the use of passwords mandatory, use the global command:
```
R1(config)# mpls ldp password required
```
exit


#### Filtering Labels
LDP lets you control the advertisement of labels. You can configure LDP to advertise or not to advertise certain labels to certain LDP peers. You can then use the locally assigned labels that are advertised to the LDP peers as outgoing label on those LSRs. The syntax for this command is as follows:
```
**mpls ldp advertise-labels [vrf <vpn-name>] [interface <interface> | for <prefix-access-list> [to <peer-access-list>]]**
```
The prefix-access-list is a standard numbered access list (1–99) or named access list that lets you specify which prefixes should have a label advertised. The peer-access-list is a standard numbered access list (1–99) or named access list that lets you specify which LDP peers should receive the label advertisements. he LDP peers are matched by this access list if the first 4 bytes of the LDP router ID are covered by the prefixes listed in that access list.

You can also filter inbound to limit the labels received from an LDP neighbor. This is the command format:
```
**mpls ldp neighbor** [**vrf** <vpn-name>] <nbr-address> **labels accept** <acl>
```

#### LDP Autoconfiguration
LDP is enabled on an interface by configuring the interface command mpls ip. On an LSR, LDP is usually enabled on all the interfaces on which the IGP is enabled. Much easier than configuring mpls ip on every interface separately is enabling LDP Autoconfiguration for the IGP. Every interface on which the IGP is running then has LDP enabled. The OSPF router command to enable LDP Autoconfiguration is:
```
**mpls ldp autoconfig** [**area** <area-id>]
```

#### MPLS LDP-IGP Synchronization
Synchronization means that the packet forwarding out of an interface happens only if both the IGP and LDP agree that this is the outgoing link to be used. A common problem with MPLS networks that are running LDP is that when the LDP session is broken on a link, the IGP still has that link as outgoing; thus, packets are still forwarded out of that link. This happens because the IGP installs the best path in the routing table for any prefix. Therefore, traffic for prefixes with a next hop out of a link where LDP is broken becomes unlabeled.

This is not a problem for IPv4 over MPLS networks - the packets are not labeled but continue to their destination based on the IGP routing. But with MPLS VPN, AToM, Virtual Private LAN Switching (VPLS), or IPv6 over MPLS, the packets must not become unlabeled in the MPLS network. If they do become unlabeled, the LSR does not have the intelligence to forward the packets anymore and drops them.

The same problem can occur when LSRs restart. The IGP can be quicker in establishing the adjacencies than LDP can establish its sessions. This means that the IGP forwarding is already happening before the LFIB has the necessary information to start the correct label forwarding. The packets are incorrectly forwarded (unlabeled) or dropped until the LDP session is established.

The solution is MPLS LDP-IGP Synchronization. This feature ensures that the link is not used to forward (unlabeled) traffic when the LDP session across the link is down. Rather, the traffic is forwarded out another link where the LDP session is still established.

When the MPLS LDP-IGP synchronization is active for an interface, the IGP announces that link with maximum metric until the synchronization is achieved, or until the LDP session is running across that interface. After the LDP session is established and label bindings have been exchanged, the IGP advertises the link with its normal IGP metric. At that point, the traffic is label-switched across that interface.

Until the LDP session is established or until the synchronization Holddown timer has expired, the OSPF adjacency is not established. 

In some cases, the problem with the LDP session might be a persistent one; therefore, it might not be desirable to keep waiting for the IGP adjacency to be established. The solution for this is to configure a Holddown timer for the synchronization. If the timer expires before the LDP session is established, the OSPF adjacency is built anyway. If everything is fine with LDP across that link, LDP also forms a session across the link. While OSPF is waiting to bring up its adjacency until LDP synchronizes, the OSPF interface state is down and OSPF does not send Hellos onto that link.

A configuration for LDP-IGP Synchronization follows.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 1
R1(config-router)# mpls ldp sync
R1(config-router)# exit
```
You can specify a holddown timer that will allow the IGP to form adjacencies, even when LDP is not synchronized.
```
R1(config)# mpls label protocol ldp
R1(config)# mpls ldp igp sync holddown 30000
```

#### MPLS LDP Session Protection
Flapping links are always a problem with protocols, and LDP is no exception. Every time the link goes down, LDP has to rebuild the LDP session and must exchange the label bindings again. To avoid having to rebuild the LDP session altogether, you can protect it. When the LDP session between two directly connected LSRs is protected, a targeted LDP session is built between the two LSRs. When the directly connected link does go down between the two LSRs, the targeted LDP session is kept up as long as an alternative path exists between the two LSRs. The LDP link adjacency is removed when the link goes down, but the targeted adjacency keeps the LDP session up. When the link comes back up, the LSR does not need to re-establish the LDP session; therefore, the convergence is better. The global command to enable LDP Session Protection is this:
```
R1(config)# mpls ldp session protection [vrp <vpn-name>] [for <acl>\] [duration <seconds\>]
```
The access list (acl) you can configure lets you specify the LDP peers that should be protected. It should hold the LDP Router Identifier of the LDP neighbors that need protection. The duration is the time that the protection (the targeted LDP session) should remain in place after the LDP link adjacency has gone down. The default value is infinite.

For the protection to work, you need to enable it on both the LSRs. If this is not possible, you can enable it on one LSR, and the other LSR can accept the targeted LDP Hellos by configuring the command **mpls ldp discovery targeted-hello accept**.

Another useful LDP feature is LDP Graceful Restart. It specifies a mechanism for LDP peers to preserve the MPLS forwarding state when the LDP session goes down. As such, traffic can continue to be forwarded without interruption, even when the LDP session restarts.





















































