---
name: 4.1.10
title: 4.1.10 - OSPF Sham-Link
short-title: OSPF SHam-Link
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.10.html
folder: vpn
---
As we learned in the previous scenario, OSPF prefixes are transported via the MPLS VPN core using MP-BGP and interpreted either as type-3 summary LSAs or type-5 external LSAs on the receiving end. This may pose some difficulties in the event that there is a backdoor link connecting two VPN sites directly. Many times the backdoor link is supposed to be used as a backup path (it’s a slow leased line) and the MPLS VPN cloud should be used as the primary way between the two sites. However, if the link is in the same area as the PE/CE routers, the PE routers will prefer the path across the back-door link, because OSPF treats all paths across it as intra-area, and the prefixes received via MP-BGP are interpreted as inter-area.

This is a fundamental issue that requires the MPLS core to be a part of the same OSPF area to resolve the conflict. The solution is called an OSPF sham-link, which is a special tunnel similar to a virtual-link connecting two PE routers and configured in the same area as the PE routers. This link is used to establish an OSPF adjacency and for the exchange of LSAs. The LSAs are then loaded in the OSPF database and the sham-link is used for intra-area path computations. However, when the routes are being installed in the respective VRF RIB, the forwarding information is based on looking up the MP-BGP learned routes based on exact prefix-match. The corresponding VPN and transport labels are then used for actual packet forwarding across the MPLS core. Therefore, the information loaded across the sham-link is used only for SPF calculations and best-path selection; the actual forwarding is being done based on the information learned via MP-BGP.

Configuring sham-links is a bit different from configuring virtual-links. First and foremost, sham-links are sourced off actual interfaces configured in the respective VRF. Commonly, these are Loopback interfaces used as endpoints for the sham- link tunnel. Notice that the IP addresses for these interfaces should be advertised into the VRF routing table by means other than OSPF, most commonly via BGP. After you have the endpoints reachable across the MPLS VPN core, you may configure the sham-link using the command **area 1 sham-link \<SRC\>\<DST\> cost \<X\>** . Here, \<SRC\> and \<DST\> are the IP addresses for the sham-link source and destination. The cost is the OSPF metric value associated with traversing the MPLS core. If the endpoints are reachable, OSPF will establish an adjacency on the link treating it as a point-to-point connection and re-calculate the shortest paths.
```
R1(config)# router ospf 100 vrf BLUE
R1(config-router)# domain-id 0.0.0.5
R1(config-router)# router-id 150.1.55.55
R1(config-router)# redistribute bgp 100 subnets
R1(config-router)# network 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255 area 1
R1(config-router)# area 1 sham-link 150.1.55.55 150.1.66.66 cost 1
R1(config-router)# exit
R1(config)# router bgp 100
R1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf BLUE
R1(config-router-af)# network 150.1.55.55
R1(config-router-af)# redistribute ospf 100 vrf BLUE metric 10 match internal external 1 external 2
R1(config-router-af)# exit
R1(config)# interface GigabitEthernet0/1.58
R1(config-if)# ip vfr forwarding BLUE
R1(config-if)# ip address 155.1.58.5 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# exit
```
Notice that iBGP, not OSPF, advertises the sham link endpoints. If you used OSPF, the sham link would flap.