---
name: 4.1.15
title: 4.1.15 - Internet Access
short-title: Internet Access
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.15.html
folder: vpn
---
Internet routing is usually done via the BGP table of the MPLS VPN network of the service provider. This BGP table is in the global routing space, not in the VRF context. By default, the VRF sites can communicate only with other VRF sites in the same VPN, not with anything in the global routing space. Therefore, something must be done to provide Internet access (global context) to the CE routers (VRF context).

We could just place the gloabl routing table inside the customer VRF, but that is a not so good idea for obvious reasons.

A common way is to have one interface from the PE to the CE router that is in the global routing space. The PE router has a VRF interface toward the CE router, but you can have a second interface that is not in a VRF toward the CE router. The routing on the CE router should then take care of sending the VPN traffic to the VRF interface and the Internet traffic to the interface in the global routing space on the PE router. This is done in today's world with 802.1Q or Multilink PPP / Multilink Frame Relay. This is how I often see the PE / CE routing for Shared port customers.

Another way is to use a static route with the **global** keyword on the VRF route. This ensures that traffic flowing from the CE router to the PE router via the VRF interface and being forwarded according to the static route is forwarded to the next hop in the global routing table. This next-hop IP address should be on the Internet gateway router. You need to forward to the VRF the traffic that is flowing from the Internet. Configuring a static route on the PE router and specifying the next hop to be the CE router accomplishes this. To ensure that the Internet gateway knows about this route, distribute the static route into BGP or the IGP of the service provider. Because the traffic is no longer VPN-to-VPN but is forwarded in the global routing table, it has only one label in the MPLS VPN network.
```
R1(config)# router bgp 1
R1(config-router)# redistribute static
R1(config-router)# neighbor 10.200.254.3 remote-as 1
R1(config-router)# exit
R1(config)# ip route vrf BLUE 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 10.200.254.5 global
```