---
name: 4.1.13
title: 4.1.13 - PE-CE Routing with BGP
short-title: PE-CE Routing with BGP
exam: both
category: 4.1 MPLS
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.1.13.html
folder: vpn
---
#### PE-CE Routing with BGP
eBGP can also be used as the PE-CE routing protocol. On the PE router you configure the CE router as a neighbor under the address-family ipv4 vrf and then activate it.
```
PE1(config)# router bgp 1
PE1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.1.2 remote-as 1
PE1(config-router)# neighbor 192.168.1.2 update-source Loopback0
PE1(config-router)# address-fmaily ipv4 vrf BLUE
PE1(config-router-af)# redistribute connected
PE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 10.10.10.2 remote-as 65001
PE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 10.10.10.2 activate
PE1(config-router-af)# exit
PE1(config-router)# address-family vpnv4
PE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 192.168.1.2
PE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 192.168.1.2 send-community extended
PE1(config-router-af)# exit
```
Notice that we have an iBGP session with the remote PE 192.168.1.2 and it is using MP-BGP vpnv4 routes. We then have the PE-CE BGP session under the address-family ipv4 vrf configuration. If the customer uses different autonomous system numbers for every site, BGP can operate with the default behavior regarding the as-path. There are two secenarios where BGP has to be adapted; once is where the customer has the same ASN at multiple sites and the other is when the customer desires a hub-and-spoke setup.

##### Same ASN at Multiple Sites
If the customer has the same ASN at different sites, the CEs will drop the BGP routes by default becuase they see their own AS in the path. We cna configure **as-override** on the PEs to correct this. Once configured, the PE will check the ASN of the CE router against the ASNs in the Path attribute - if the ASN of the CE is in the path, the PE replaces that ASN with its own ASN.
```
PE1(config)# router bgp 100
PE1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf BLUE
PE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 155.1.1.2 remote-as 200
PE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 155.1.1.2 as-override
```

You could also accomplish this at the CE by using allowas-in. This tells the CE to loosen its check on the AS Path

```
CE1(config)# router bgp 200
CE1(config-router)# address-family ipv4 vrf BLUE
CE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 155.1.1.1 remote-as 100
CE1(config-router-af)# neighbor 155.1.1.1 allowas-in
```

##### Hub and Spoke
To achieve a hub and spoke configuration with MPLS VPN, special configuration is needed. First you should use a distinct RD at each spoke. Second, you need two different RTs.

One RT is attached to the spoke routes when the spoke site send them to the hub site. the other is attached to the hub routes when the hub site sends them to the spoke sites.

The VRF on the spoke sites does not import the RTs exported by the other Spoke Sites.

Let's say we use a RT of 100:100 for the routes the spokes export and RT of 100:101 for the routes the hub site exports. The spoke PE routers advertise the routes with RT=100:100 while the hub PE router imports this RT. The hub PE router advertises the routes from the hub CE router with RT=100:101. The spoke PE routers import RT 100:101, which ensures that spoke-to-spoke traffic goes through the hub site.