---
name: 4.2.1
title: 4.2.1 - ISAKMP Policies
short-title: ISAKMP Policies
exam: both
category: 4.2 IPSec LAN-to-LAN
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.2.1.html
folder: vpn
---
ISAKMP parameters are negotiated during IKE Phase 1. The mandatory parameters are:
- encryption algorithm (DES, 3DES, AES)
- hash algorithm (HMAC version of the negotiated hash algorithm)
- authentication method (pre-shared key, digital signature)
- Diffie-Hellman Group (specified by group number)

Here is an example configuration on a Cisco router:
```
R1(config)# crypto isakmp policy 1
R1(config-isakmp)# encryption < des | 3des | aes >
R1(config-isakmp)# hash < md5 | sha | sha256 | sha384 | sha512 >
R1(config-isakmp)# group2
R1(config-isakmp)# lifetime <60 - 86400>
R1(config-isakmp)# authentication <pre-share | rsa-encr | rsa-sig>
R1(config-isakmp)# crypto isakmp key KEY address 10.102.0.2
```
When defining the key, the address is the address of our peer.


*group2* in the configuration specifies Diffie-Hellman group 2. Here is an explanation of how the Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange works. Diffie-Hellman solves the problem that if pre-shared keys are used for authentication (symmetric algorithms like 3DES and AES), how can you exchange a secret key over a non-private medium without Eve intercepting it?

First Alice and Bob agree publicly on a prime number and a modulus (we will use 7 and 3). Then Alice selects a private randum number, say 3, and calculates $$7^3$$ mod 3 = 1 and sends it publicly to Bob. Then Bob selects his private random number, say 2, and calculates $$7^2$$ mod 3 = 1 and sends it publicly to Alice. Alice then takes Bob's public result and raises it to the power of her private number mod the original modulus. So she takes $$1^3$$ mod 3 = 1 so 1 is the shared secret. Computing the same for Bob, he takes Alice's public number (1) and raises it to the power of his private number mod the original modulus. So he takes $$1^2$$ mod 3 = 1. This is the same as Alice's shared secret and it has been computed without Eve being able to compute it.

To show a configured ISAKMP policy, use **show crypto isakmp policy** .