---
name: 4.2.4
title: 4.2.4 - IPSec over GRE
short-title: IPSec over GRE
exam: both
category: 4.2 IPSec LAN-to-LAN
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.2.4.html
folder: vpn
---
#### IPsec and GRE

Why use GRE and IPsec together? Crypto maps have no interface in the routing table, so dynamic IGP routing is not supported, as there is no capability to handle broadcast or multicast traffic. By adding an additional encapsulation, we can run our routing inside the GRE tunnel, and then encrypt the GRE tunnel inside of IPsec.


There are two configurations with GRE and IPsec:
- GRE over IPsec
- IPsec over GRE

GRE over IPsec encrypts anything that is encapsulated by GRE. IPsec over GRE, encrypts only the payload nad not the routing protocols running over a GRE tunnel, thus removing the overhead of encrypting the GRE header. The correct design is GRE over IPsec.

With GRE over IPsec, IPsec is the transport and the crypto map is attached to the *physical* interface. GRE encapsulation occurs first, encryption second.

With IPsec over GRE, GRE is the transport and the crypto map is attached to the tunnel interface. IPsec encryption occurs first, encapsulation second.

- GRE adds at least 24 bytes of overhead, including the new 20-byte IP header. Following the new IP Header is 2 bytes for GRE Flags and then 2 bytes for the Protocol Type. The 24 bytes of overhead does not include overhead for ESP and GRE headers.

- unlike Crypto Maps, a tunnel has an associated interface and can therefore transport any protocol

The following diagram shows the packet format of GRE over IPsec in tunnel and transport modes.
{% include image.html file="gre-over-ipsec.png" %}
Transport mode does not encrypt the GRE IP Header, while tunnel mode does. Transport mode is considered more efficient and is more common as the GRE and IPsec endpoints are often the same. Whether tunnel mode or transport mode is used, the original IP header and packet are fully protected. The use of IPSec transport mode, however, requires that the GRE encapsulation use an IP source and destination address that is reachable via the IP path to its peer. 

The GRE encapsulation does increase the size of the packet and potentially causes fragmentation issues. Packet fragmentation can be avoided by ensuring that PMTUD is enabled. To ensure that PMTUD works as expected, ICMP code 3 type 4 messages must be allowed through the network. If ICMP code 3 type 4 messages are not supported in the network, setting a lower MTU size on the tunnel interface will cause fragmentation before encryption to happen, achieving the same effect as Look Ahead Fragmentation. If the end hosts support PMTUD, then they will match the packet size to the configured MTU. Both the IPSec and GRE specifications support Path MTU Discovery by allowing the copy of the DF bit of the original IP header into the newly built IP header. This is usually a configuration option of the devices.

If the end host does not support PMTUD and the DF bit is not set, the packet will be fragmented and sent over the GRE-encrypted tunnel. One benefit to reducing the MTU on the GRE tunnel is that packet fragmentation occurs before it hits the encryption process; therefore, the reassembly is done on the end host and not on the peer IPSec gateway.

Here is a sample configuration. R1 uses the newer **tunnel protection ipsec profile gre** command under the GRE tunnel interface instead of applying the crypto map to the physical interface, as R2 uses.
```
R1(config)# crypto isakmp policy 1
R1(config-isakmp)# authentication pre-share
R1(config-isakmp)# exit
R1(config)# crypto isakmp key CISCO address 9.1.1.35
R1(config)# crypto ipsec transform-set TEST esp-3des esp-sha-hmac
R1(config)# crypto ipsec profile gre
R1(ipsec-profile)# set transform-set TEST
R1(ipsec-profile)# exit
R1(config)# interface Tunnel0
R1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# ip mtu 1400
R1(config-if)# ip tcp adjust-mss 1360
R1(config-if)# tunnel source Serial0/0
R1(config-if)# tunnel destination 9.1.1.35
R1(config-if)# tunnel path-mtu-discovery
R1(config-if)# tunnel protection ipsec profile gre
```
R2(config)# crypto isakmp policy 1
R2(config-isakmp)# authentication pre-share
R2(config-isakmp)# exit
R2(config)# crypto isakmp key CISCO address 9.1.1.146
R2(config)# crypto ipsec transform-set TEST esp-3des esp-sha-hmac
R2(cfg-crypto-trans)# mode transport
R2(cfg-crypto-trans)# exit
R2(config)# crypto map VPN 1 ipsec-isakmp
R2(config-crypto-map)# set peer 9.1.1.146
R2(config-crypto-map)# set transform-set TEST
R2(config-crypto-map)# match address 100
R2(config-crypto-map)# exit
R2(config)# interface Tunnel0
R2(config-if)# ip address 192.168.1.2 255.255.255.0
R2(config-if)# ip mtu 1400
R2(config-if)# ip tcp adjust-mss 1360
R2(config-if)# tunnel source Serial0/0
R2(config-if)# tunnel destination 9.1.1.146
R2(config-if)# tunnel path-mtu-discovery
R1(config-if)# keepalive 20 3
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# access-list 100 permit gre host 9.1.1.146 host 9.1.1.35
```
To facilitate knowledge of the tunnel status, GRE keepalive messages can be configured on the GRE peers. The above configuration shows GRE keepalive under the tunnel interface. GRE tunnel comes up as soon as it sees the default route in the routing table on R2. Now, if R1 goes down, you want the tunnel interface on R2 to go down - this is facilitated by GRE keepalives. If an interface stops receiving keepalives it will transition to the up/down state and the tunnel will not forward or process any traffic except for keepalives. If it hears a fresh keepalive after being put in the up/down state, theline protocol state will transition to up, and interesting traffic will begin passing again.
The format is **keepalive \<increment\> \<retry attempts\>**.
	
#### Fragmentation with GRE over IPsec
More complex interactions for fragmentation and PMTUD occur when IPsec is used in order to encrypt GRE tunnels. As mentioned previously, transport mode is often used with GRE over IPsec, as it saves 20 bytes of IPsec overhead.

One interesting case is when an IP packet has been split into two fragments and encapsulated by GRE. In this case IPsec will see two independent GRE + IP packets. Often in a default configuration one of these packets will be large enough that it will need to be fragmented after it has been encrypted. The IPsec peer will have to reassemble this packet before decryption. This "double fragmentation" (once before GRE and again after IPsec) on the sending router increases latency and lowers throughput. Also, reassembly is process-switched, so there will be a CPU hit on the receiving router whenever this happens.

This situation can be avoided by setting the **ip mtu** on the GRE tunnel interface low enough to take into account the overhead from both GRE and IPsec (by default the GRE tunnel interface "ip mtu" is set to the outgoing real interface MTU - GRE overhead bytes). The recommended setting for GRE + IPsec in both tunnel and transport mode is 1400 bytes.

Configuring the tunnel path-mtu-discovery command on a tunnel interface can help GRE and IPsec interaction when they are configured on the same router. Remember that without the **tunnel path-mtu-discovery** command configured, the DF bit would always be cleared in the GRE IP header. This allows the GRE IP packet to be fragmented even though the encapsulated data IP header had the DF bit set, which normally would not allow the packet to be fragmented.
If the tunnel path-mtu-discovery command is configured on the GRE tunnel interface, this will happen:

1. GRE will copy the DF bit from the data IP header to the GRE IP header.
2. If the DF bit is set in the GRE IP header and the packet will be "too large" after IPsec encryption for the IP MTU on the physical outgoing interface, then IPsec will drop the packet and notify the GRE tunnel to reduce its IP MTU size.
3. IPsec does PMTUD for its own packets and if the IPsec PMTU changes (if it is reduced), then IPsec does not immediately notify GRE, but when another "too large" packet comes thorough, then the process in step 2 occurs.
4. GRE's IP MTU is now smaller, so it will drop any data IP packets with the DF bit set that are now too large and send an ICMP message to the sending host.

The **tunnel path-mtu-discovery** command helps the GRE interface set its IP MTU dynamically, rather than statically with the **ip mtu** command. *It is actually recommended that both commands are used*. The **ip mtu** command is used to provide room for the GRE and IPsec overhead relative to the local physical outgoing interface IP MTU. The **tunnel path-mtu-discovery** command allows the GRE tunnel IP MTU to be further reduced if there is a lower IP MTU link in the path between the IPsec peers.
