---
name: 4.3.5
title: 4.3.5 - QoS Pre-Classify
short-title: QoS Pre-Classify
exam: both
category: 4.3 DMVPN
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.3.5.html
folder: vpn
---
To reconcile the loss of information during the IPSec encapsulation process, Cisco has implemented a special QoS mechanism referred to as qos pre-classify. With this feature, the original IP packet's attributes (addresses, protocol, ports, DSCP) are copied to the IPSec-encapsulated packet as it moves to the egress queue. When classification methods are applied to the egress interface, the IP QoS mechanisms will use the copied original IP packet QoS attributes as opposed to the encapsulating IPSec header. This model allows the designer to build queue structures that may queue packets based on the original addresses, protocols, and ports. The copied information is simply discarded as the packet leaves the router.

Any QoS functions between the encrypting and decrypting routers will not have access to this information, therefore it is imperitive that DSCP be marked appropriately and enforced properly in the path between routers.

```
R1(config)# crypto map TEST 10
R1(config-crypto-map)# qos pre-classify
R1(config-crypto-map)# exit
R1(config)# end
```
In this scenario, the packets are classified as GRE which is probably not all that helpful. That's why the below configuration makes much more sense.
R1(config)# interface Tunnel0
R1(config-if)# qos pre-classify
R1(config-if)# end
```
Now, temporal copy of the packet will be created for further classification, before the GRE encapsulation occurs.