---
name: 4.3.1
title: 4.3.1 - Single Hub
short-title: Single Hub
exam: both
category: 4.3 DMVPN
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.3.1.html
folder: vpn
---
#### DMVPN Background
The DMVPN model provides a scalable configuration for a dynamic-mesh VPN based on the premise that the only relationships configured are those between the hub and spokes.The DMVPN architecture dynamically establishes a routable path via a GRE over IPSec connection between any two members in the DMVPN subnet. The destination prefixes and their next hops are discovered through traditional routing protocols while GRE tunnel endpoints are dynamically discovered and the IPSec protection policy of the tunnels is inferred from the tunnel source and tunnel destination. DMVPN uses a combination of a Multipoint GRE (mGRE) interface and Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP) to achieve its objectives.

DMVPN introduces several new functional components that you must review in order to understand the process of connection establishment. The three key functional components are as follows:
- Multipoint GRE Interfaces
- Next Hop Resolution Protocol
- IPsec Proxy Instantiation

##### Multipoint GRE Interfaces
As the name suggests, mGRE is a point-to-multipoint interface, in which a single tunnel interface can terminate all the GRE tunnels from all the spokes. This efficiency eliminates a great deal of configuration complexity and memory resource allocation. Second, it allows incoming GRE tunnel connections from any peer, including those with dynamically assigned tunnel addresses. The single multipoint tunnel interface dramatically simplifies the configuration of the hub in a hub-and-spoke VPN whereas a low-end platform may now participate in a temporal full-mesh topology.

With mGRE, there is no section for tunnel destination as there is for a standard tunnel. We must have some way to identify the remote peer's tunnel address, and that is where NHRP will come into play. The fact that DMVPN does not need to know the remote tunnel endpoint IP address in advance is a compelling advantage for building site-to-site hub-and-spoke VPNs in which the spoke's IP address is dynamically assigned.

##### Next Hop Resolution Protocol
In the DMVPN model, each spoke has a protected IP address space that is not initially known by any other router in the VPN. First, you must provide a means of informing all the other spokes (and the hub) of the subnets that each spoke protects. Assuming that the hub router will have a permanent public IP address (that is, an IKE identity), then each of the spokes may be pre-configured to connect to the hub at boot time. The spokes may then initiate a connection to the hub, register with the hub, and inform the hub of the address space that each spoke protects. The objective of the routing process is to inform the hub and all the spokes of the private routable prefixes and the associated spoke's Multipoint GRE (mGRE) interface for each prefix.

The NHRP protocol established between the spoke and the hub provides the necessary "glue" to associate a spoke's public IP address with its configured private mGRE interface address. When the spoke initiates a connection to the hub, it registers with the hub via NHRP. The registration process at the hub binds the spoke's mGRE interface to that spoke's dynamically assigned public IP address. The hub now has an adjacency database for the all the active spokes in the entire DMVPN. This information is not broadcast to the active spokes; however, the spokes recognize that the hub serves as the adjacency database.

It is actually a pretty easy concept. Let's say there is a spoke who has an internal network of 192.168.17.0/24. Let's say another spoke wants to create a temporary tunnel to the spoke to reach that internal subnet. The requesting spoke will have a next-hop address of the GRE interface for the 192.168.17.0/24. How can it establish an IKE security association to that interface?

The answer is it cannot - it needs the public IP address of the physical router. This is where NHRP comes in. The requesting spoke asks the hub what the target spoke's endpoint IP address. Since all spoke's register this information with the hub upon tunnel creation, the hub can respond with the target spoke's public IP address.

The requesting spoke now has sufficient information to dynamically create a GRE tunnel instance to the target spoke. The GRE tunnel instance will build an IP header with the tunnel source defined as the local spoke's public IP address and the tunnel destination defined as the remote spoke's public IP address. Both of these addresses are routable on the IP backbone whereas the mGRE interface address may be a private address or non-routable address. You now have a viable tunnel path directly between the spokes.

##### Dynamic IPsec Instantiation
The DMVPN architecture allows spokes to have dynamically assigned public addresses. Therefore, spokes cannot have preconfigured IPSec proxy profiles or IKE identities for spoke-to-spoke connections. A DMVPN with dynamic address assignment at the spokes precludes the ability to pre-configure the IPSec proxy. Therefore, Cisco developed an automatic IPSec proxy profile instantiation process for GRE tunnels. With IPSec protection of GRE tunnels, it is safe to assume that IPSec must protect the IP addresses encapsulating the GRE header. The NHRP reconciliation process provides the initiating spoke with the relevant tunnel destination IP address. The IPSec proxy profile is dynamically instantiated to protect the GRE packets sourced from the locally assigned public IP address and the remote's assigned public IP address. Any traffic routed into this GRE tunnel instance matches the IPSec proxy profile; therefore, IPSec protection is initiated for the instantiated point-to-point tunnel between the spokes.

The second dilemma arises because a key is needed to establish a relationship with the remote spoke's IKE identity. Here again, the initiating spoke cannot have a remote spoke's IKE identity and key configured as prior. However, by applying the same assumptions used in creating the IPSec proxy profile, the initiating spoke may assume that the destination IP address in the GRE tunnel is also the IKE identity of the peer. The initiating spoke must now associate a key with the inferred IKE identity. You have several options here:
- Pre-configure a unique pre-shared key for each IKE identity (if every IKE peer is known at the time of configuration)
- Pre-configure a globally pre-shared key for every IKE identity
- Implement a public key infrastructure

As noted, the first option is not viable when the spokes use dynamically assigned public IP addresses. A unique pre-shared key can only be configured where the peer's IKE identity is known. Clearly, this is not the case when spokes use dynamic public IP address assignments. The second option is to use the same pre-shared key across all the VPN gateways in the network where the IKE identity of the all the remote peers is specified as 0.0.0.0. The real IKE identity for a peer is instantiated by the NHRP routing proxy database (that is, the IKE identity is assumed to be the same as the remote GRE tunnel endpoint). This may be a satisfactory approach for some customers. The third option is to use digital certificates. The PKI option is certainly the most robust method; however, it is also the most complex. Nevertheless, PKI is the recommended method of securing the IKE establishment.

#### DMVPN Operation
##### Hub Configuration
To configure the hub router, you must do these configuration steps:
- assign a static public ip address
- set up the mGRE interface that references the public IP interface
- enforce IPsec protection of the GRE interface
- allow incoming IKE connections from any device protecting GRE
- establish a dynamic routing protocol on the mGRE interface
- establish the NHRP server process on the mGRE interface

Here is a sample hub configuration
```
vpn-gw1-west#show running-config
hostname "vpn-gw1-west"
!
crypto isakmp policy 1
 authentication pre-share
crypto isakmp key dmvpn address 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0
!
crypto ipsec transform-set dmvpn-trans esp-des esp-md5-hmac
!
crypto ipsec profile dmvpn-profile
 set transform-set dmvpn-trans
!
! Multi-point GRE interface in DMVPN Private Overlay Cloud
! NHRP Server Config for Spoke clients
! OSPF Process associated with DMVPN Private Overlay Cloud
! Multi-point GRE header uses IP address in backbone routing domain
! Multi-point GRE header is used to build dynamic IPSec proxy
!
interface Tunnel0
 ip address 9.0.0.1 255.255.255.0
 ip mtu 1416
! NHRP authentication password used by the spokes to build an NHRP adjacency
 ip nhrp authentication nhrp-pwd
! Map multicast forwarding to any new dynamically created NHRP adjacencies
 ip nhrp map multicast dynamic
! Unique descriptor for the NHRP in this particular DMVPN cloud
 ip nhrp network-id 1
! Hold the NHRP state for 300 seconds before destroying the adjacency due to idle timer
expiration
 ip nhrp holdtime 300
 ip ospf network broadcast
 ip ospf priority 2
 ip ospf mtu-ignore
 tunnel source Serial0/0
 tunnel mode gre multipoint
 tunnel key 999
 tunnel protection ipsec profile dmvpn-profile
!
! Static IP Address in Backbone Routing Domain
interface Serial0/0
 ip address 9.1.1.10 255.255.255.252
!
! Private interface on protected subnet
interface Ethernet0/1
 ip address 10.1.0.1 255.255.255.0
!
! Routing process associated with private subnets and DMVPN cloud
router ospf 1
 router-id 10.1.0.1
 network 9.0.0.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
 network 10.0.0.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
!
ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 9.1.1.9
```
You can see in the above there is really a lot of missing information that in a static configuration you would expect to see.
- there are no defined relationships with the spokes
the IPsec proxies are undefined

##### Spoke Configuration
The spoke must be configured as follows.
- an interface needs a publically routable IP address (dynamic or static)
- a mGRE interface needs to be created that references the public IP address
- enforce IPsec protection of the spoke's mGRE interface
- allow incoming IKE connections from any device protecting GRE
- establish a dynamic routing protocol on the mGRE interface referencing the hub as the route target
- establish NHRP configuration on the mGRE interface referencing the hub as the NHRP server

```
spoke-1-west# show running-config
hostname "spoke-1-west "
!
crypto isakmp policy 1
 authentication pre-share
crypto isakmp key dmvpn address 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0
!
!
crypto ipsec transform-set dmvpn-trans esp-des esp-md5-hmac
!
crypto ipsec profile dmvpn-profile
 set transform-set dmvpn-trans
!
! Multi-point GRE interface in DMVPN Private Overlay Cloud
! NHRP Client Config for Hub Server
! OSPF Process associated with DMVPN Private Overlay Cloud
! Multi-point GRE header uses IP address in backbone routing domain
! Multi-point GRE header is used to build dynamic IPSec proxy
!
interface Tunnel0
 ip address 9.0.0.2 255.255.255.0
 no ip redirects
 ip mtu 1416
 ip nhrp authentication nhrp-pwd
 ip nhrp map 9.0.0.1 9.1.1.10
 ip nhrp map multicast 9.1.1.10
 ip nhrp network-id 1
 ip nhrp holdtime 300
 ip nhrp nhs 9.0.0.1
 ip ospf network broadcast
 ip ospf priority 0
 ip ospf mtu-ignore
 tunnel source Serial0/0
 tunnel mode gre multipoint
 tunnel key 999
 tunnel protection ipsec profile dmvpn-profile
!
interface Serial0/0
 ip address 9.1.1.130 255.255.255.252
!
interface Ethernet0/1
 ip address 10.0.64.1 255.255.255.0
!
router ospf 1
 router-id 10.0.64.1
 log-adjacency-changes
 network 9.0.0.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
 network 9.1.0.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
 network 10.0.64.0 0.0.0.255 area 0
!
ip classless
ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 9.1.1.129
!
!
```
Notice that the NHRP client is statically configured to map the hub's NHRP private address in the DMVPN overlay cloud to the hub's backbone-facing public address.




