---
name: 4.3.4
title: 4.3.4 - QoS Profiles
short-title: QoS Profiles
exam: both
category: 4.3 DMVPN
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.3.4.html
folder: vpn
---
IPSec presents a challenge to packet classification methods of QoS. IPSec headers mask the original IP header information such as protocol identifiers and source and destination port numbers. ESP uses protocol ID 50 and AH uses 51. IKE uses protocol 17 with UDP port number 500. IPSec NAT-T uses UDP encapsulation with port number 4500.

Despite all of this rewriting, the IPSec standard specifies the automatic preservation of the DSCP bits in the original IP packet. As such, the original IP header's DSCP must be present in the IPSec packet's IP header.

##### IPSec Transport Mode
- Original IP addresses are not encapsulated, so they may be used for classification
- DSCP is preserved per the IPSec standard
- protocol identifiers are replaced by ESP 50 or AH 51 and therefore cannot be used

##### IPSec Tunnel Mode
- all original identifying information (source and destination IP address, protocol identifier, port number) is lost as tunnel mode encapsulates all of this inside a new IP header
- only DSCP is preserved

##### GRE over IPSec
- address and DSCP information is preserved in transport mode, only DSCP in tunnel mode

To help with QoS on IPSec encrypted traffic, Cisco developed the IPsec and Quality of Service feature. It allows you to apply QoS policies, such as traffic policing and shaping, to IPsec-protected packets by adding a QoS group to ISAKMP profiles. After the QoS group has been added, this group value will be mapped to the same QoS group as defined in QoS class maps. Any current QoS method that makes use of this QoS group tag can be applied to IPsec packet flows.

The application of the QoS group is applied at the ISAKMP profile level because it is the profile that can uniquely identify devices through its concept of match identity criteria. These criteria are on the basis of the Internet Key Exchange (IKE) identity that is presented by incoming IKE connections and includes such things as IP address, fully qualified domain name (FQDN), and group (that is, the virtual private network [VPN] remote client grouping). The granularity of the match identity criteria will impose the granularity of the specified QoS policy,

Here is a basic configuration.
```
class-map match-all yellow
 match qos-group 3
class-map match-all blue
match qos-group 2
!
!
policy-map clients
 class blue
  set precedence 5
 class yellow
  set precedence 7
!
!
crypto isakmp policy 1
 encr 3des
 hash md5
 authentication pre-share
 group 2
 lifetime 300
!
crypto isakmp profile blue
   match identity group cisco
   client authentication list autho
   isakmp authorization list autho
   client configuration address respond
   qos-group 2
crypto isakmp profile yellow
   match identity group yellow
   match identity address 10.0.0.11 255.255.255.255
   client authentication list autho
   isakmp authorization list autho
   client configuration address respond
   qos-group 3
!
```
