---
name: 4.3.2
title: 4.3.2 - NHRP
short-title: NHRP
exam: both
category: 4.3 DMVPN
collection: vpn
layout: page
sidebar: vpn_sidebar
permalink: 4.3.2.html
folder: vpn
---
In the DMVPN model, each spoke has a protected IP address space that is not initially known by any other router in the VPN. First, you must provide a means of informing all the other spokes (and the hub) of the subnets that each spoke protects. Assuming that the hub router will have a permanent public IP address (that is, an IKE identity), then each of the spokes may be pre-configured to connect to the hub at boot time. The spokes may then initiate a connection to the hub, register with the hub, and inform the hub of the address space that each spoke protects. The objective of the routing process is to inform the hub and all the spokes of the private routable prefixes and the associated spoke's Multipoint GRE (mGRE) interface for each prefix.

The NHRP protocol established between the spoke and the hub provides the necessary "glue" to associate a spoke's public IP address with its configured private mGRE interface address. When the spoke initiates a connection to the hub, it registers with the hub via NHRP. The registration process at the hub binds the spoke's mGRE interface to that spoke's dynamically assigned public IP address. The hub now has an adjacency database for the all the active spokes in the entire DMVPN. This information is not broadcast to the active spokes; however, the spokes recognize that the hub serves as the adjacency database.

It is actually a pretty easy concept. Let's say there is a spoke who has an internal network of 192.168.17.0/24. Let's say another spoke wants to create a temporary tunnel to the spoke to reach that internal subnet. The requesting spoke will have a next-hop address of the GRE interface for the 192.168.17.0/24. How can it establish an IKE security association to that interface?

The answer is it cannot - it needs the public IP address of the physical router. This is where NHRP comes in. The requesting spoke asks the hub what the target spoke's endpoint IP address. Since all spoke's register this information with the hub upon tunnel creation, the hub can respond with the target spoke's public IP address.

The requesting spoke now has sufficient information to dynamically create a GRE tunnel instance to the target spoke. The GRE tunnel instance will build an IP header with the tunnel source defined as the local spoke's public IP address and the tunnel destination defined as the remote spoke's public IP address. Both of these addresses are routable on the IP backbone whereas the mGRE interface address may be a private address or non-routable address. You now have a viable tunnel path directly between the spokes.